source/getting-started/concepts-terminology.markdown, before:

---
title: "Concepts and terminology"
description: "User explanation of Home Assistant basics"
---
Now you're in Home Assistant, let's go over important parts of Home Assistant and what they do.

### Dashboards
Customizable pages to display information connected to and available in Home Assistant. Dashboards are the first thing you see after the [onboarding process](/images/getting-started/onboarding). More details can be found [here](/dashboards).

![Dashboard](/images/getting-started/lovelace.png)
### Integrations
Software that allows Home Assistant to connect to other software and platforms. For example, Philips Hue integration allow Home Assistant to talk to the Hue Bridge and read data such as the state of your lights through to controlling the lights themselves.

![Integrations](/images/getting-started/integrations.png)

A full list of compatible integrations can be found [here](/integrations).

Once an integration has been added, the hardware and/or data are represented in Home Assistant as [devices and entities](#devices--entities).

### Devices & Entities
Devices are logical grouping for one or more entities. A device may represent a physical device and the device may have one or more sensors which appear as entities associated to the device. For example, a motion sensor is represented as a device and the motion may provide motion detection, temperature and light levels as entities. Entities have states such as `on` when motion is detected and `off` where is no motion.

Devices and entities can be used in dashboards to [automations](#automations).

![Home Assistant Device](/images/getting-started/home-assistant-device.png)

### Automations
A set of repeatable steps that can be set up to run automatically. More details can be found [here](/automation).

![Automations](/images/getting-started/automation-editor.png)

### Add-ons
Depending on your [installation type](/installation), you may have the ability to install add-ons. Add-ons are usually apps that can be run with Home Assistant but provide a quick and easy way to install, configure and run within Home Assistant. Add-ons provide additional functionality where as integrations connects Home Assistant to other apps.

![Add-ons](/images/getting-started/add-ons.png)

{% include getting-started/next_step.html step="Add an integration" link="/getting-started/integration/" %}

Commit message:

Added scripts and scenes.
Replaced steps with action which is the same word used in other pages like /integrations/script/

source/getting-started/concepts-terminology.markdown, after:

---
title: "Concepts and terminology"
description: "User explanation of Home Assistant basics"
---
Now you're in Home Assistant, let's go over important parts of Home Assistant and what they do.

### Dashboards
Customizable pages to display information connected to and available in Home Assistant. Dashboards are the first thing you see after the [onboarding process](/images/getting-started/onboarding). More details can be found [here](/dashboards).

![Dashboard](/images/getting-started/lovelace.png)
### Integrations
Software that allows Home Assistant to connect to other software and platforms. For example, Philips Hue integration allow Home Assistant to talk to the Hue Bridge and read data such as the state of your lights through to controlling the lights themselves.

![Integrations](/images/getting-started/integrations.png)

A full list of compatible integrations can be found [here](/integrations).

Once an integration has been added, the hardware and/or data are represented in Home Assistant as [devices and entities](#devices--entities).

### Devices & Entities
Devices are logical grouping for one or more entities. A device may represent a physical device and the device may have one or more sensors which appear as entities associated to the device. For example, a motion sensor is represented as a device and the motion may provide motion detection, temperature and light levels as entities. Entities have states such as `on` when motion is detected and `off` where is no motion.

Devices and entities can be used in dashboards to [automations](#automations).

![Home Assistant Device](/images/getting-started/home-assistant-device.png)

### Automations
A set of repeatable actions that can be set up to run automatically. More details can be found [here](/automation).

![Automations](/images/getting-started/automation-editor.png)

### Scripts
Similar to automations, repeatable actions that can be run. The difference between scripts and automations is scripts do not have triggers like automations so they cannot automatically run unless it's used in an automation. Scripts are particularly useful if you perform the same actions in different automations to triggering them from the dashboard. More details can be found [here](/integrations/script/).

### Scenes
Scenes are saved states of entities which can be recalled using scripts or automations. For example, a light can be set to a particular brightness, color, etc. More details can be found [here](/integrations/scene/).

### Add-ons
Depending on your [installation type](/installation), you may have the ability to install add-ons. Add-ons are usually apps that can be run with Home Assistant but provide a quick and easy way to install, configure and run within Home Assistant. Add-ons provide additional functionality where as integrations connects Home Assistant to other apps.

![Add-ons](/images/getting-started/add-ons.png)

{% include getting-started/next_step.html step="Add an integration" link="/getting-started/integration/" %}
