---
layout: page
title: "SMA Solar WebConnect"
description: "Instructions on how to connect your SMA Solar Inverter to Home Assistant."
date: 2015-12-28 21:45
sidebar: true
comments: false
sharing: true
footer: true
ha_category: Energy
logo: sma.png
ha_iot_class: "Local Polling"
ha_release: 0.36
---

The `sma` sensor will poll a [SMA](http://www.sma-solar.com/) [(US)](http://www.sma-america.com/) solar inverter and present the values as sensors (or attributes of sensors) in Home Assistant.

This sensor uses the web interface and in order to use it you have to be able to connect to the solar inverter from your favorite web browser.

## {% linkable_title Configuration %}

To enable this sensor, add the following lines to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sensor:
  - platform: sma
    host: IP_ADDRESS_OF_DEVICE
    password: YOUR_SMA_PASSWORD
    sensors:
      current_consumption: [total_consumption]
      pv_power:
      total_yield:
```

{% configuration %}
host:
  description: The IP address of the SMA WebConnect module.
  required: true
  type: string
ssl:
  description: Enables HTTPS if set to `true`, otherwise with `false` the platform run with HTTP.
  required: false
  default: false
  type: boolean
verify_ssl:
  description: Whether Home Assistant should verify the SSL certificate from the inverter. Self-signed certificates may require `false` for this sensor to operate properly.
  required: false
  default: true
  type: boolean
password:
  description: The password of the SMA WebConnect module.
  required: true
  type: string
group:
  description: The user group, which can be either `user` or `installer`.
  required: false
  default: user
  type: string
sensors:
  description: A dictionary of sensors that will be added. The value of the dictionary can include a list of sensor names that will be used as attributes.
  required: false
  default: All sensors
  type: map
  keys:
    pv_power:
      description: Current power generated by the inverter (W).
    pv_gen_meter:
      description: Total kWh generated to date (kWh)
    total_yield:
      description: Total power yield from solar installation (kWh).
    daily_yield:
      description: The yield for today (Wh)
            
    current_consumption:
      description: Power that you are currently drawing, depending on your installation it can be a combination of the inverter and the grid (W).
    total_consumption:
      description: Total power consumption (kWh).
    
    grid_power_supplied:
      description: Power supplied (W)
    grid_power_absorbed:
      description: Power absorbed (W)
    grid_total_yield:
      description: Total power fom the grid (kWh)
    grid_total_absorbed:
      description: Total power supplied to the grid 
    
    grid_power:
      description: Power supplied by the grid (W)
    frequency:
      description: Grid frequency (W)
    voltage_l1:
      description: Voltage for phase 1 (V)
    voltage_l2:
      description: Voltage for phase 2 (V)
    voltage_l2:
      description: Voltage for phase 3 (V)
      
    status:
      description: Status of the solar plant.
      
    your-custom-sensor:
      description: Any sensor name defined in the `custom:` section
custom:
  description: A dictionary of custom sensor key values and units.
  required: false
  type: map
  keys:
    key:
      description: The SMA sensor key.
      required: true
      type: string
    unit:
      description: Unit.
      required: true
      type: string
    factor:
      description: Factor.
      required: false
      default: 1
      type: float
{% endconfiguration %}

You can create composite sensors, where the sub-sensors will be attributes of the main sensor. E.g.,

```yaml
    sensors:
      - current_power: [total_power, total_consumption]
```

The SMA WebConnect module supports a wide variety of sensors, and not all these have been mapped to standard sensors. Custom sensors can be defined by using the `custom` section of the configuration. You will need: A sensor name (no spaces), the SMA sensor key and the unit

Example:

```yaml
   custom:
      yesterday_consumption:
         key: 6400_00543A01
         unit: kWh
         factor: 1000
```

Over time more sensors will be added as standard sensors to the [pysma library](https://github.com/kellerza/pysma/blob/master/pysma/__init__.py#L100). Feel free to submit additional sensors on that repository.
