source/developers/cla.markdown, before:

---
title: "Contributor License Agreement"
description: "The Code of Conduct for Home Assistant projects."
---

# Contributor License Agreement

```txt
By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
    have the right to submit it under the Apache 2.0 license; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
    of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
    license and I have the right under that license to submit that
    work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
    by me, under the Apache 2.0 license; or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
    person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
    it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
    are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
    personal information I submit with it) is maintained indefinitely
    and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the open
    source license(s) involved.
```

## Attribution

The text of this license is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).  It is based on the Linux [Developer Certificate Of Origin](http://elinux.org/Developer_Certificate_Of_Origin), but is modified to explicitly use the Apache 2.0 license
and not mention sign-off.

## Signing

If you have not signed the CLA and you submit a pull request to a repository under the Home Assistant organization, a link will be automatically generated. Just follow the link and the instructions in the link.

## Adoption

This Contributor License Agreement (CLA) was first announced on January 21st, 2017 in [this][cla-blog] blog post and adopted January 28th, 2017.

[cla-blog]: /blog/2017/01/21/home-assistant-governance/

Commit message:

Rename CLA to DCO, for #17436
Change mentions of "Contributor License Agreement" to "Developer Certificate of Origin".

source/developers/cla.markdown, after:

---
title: "Developer Certificate of Origin"
description: "The Developer Certificate of Origin for Home Assistant projects."
---

# Developer Certificate of Origin

```txt
By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
    have the right to submit it under the Apache 2.0 license; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
    of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
    license and I have the right under that license to submit that
    work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
    by me, under the Apache 2.0 license; or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
    person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
    it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
    are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
    personal information I submit with it) is maintained indefinitely
    and may be redistributed consistent with this project or the open
    source license(s) involved.
```

## Attribution

The text of this license is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).  It is based on the Linux [Developer Certificate Of Origin](http://elinux.org/Developer_Certificate_Of_Origin), but is modified to explicitly use the Apache 2.0 license
and not mention sign-off.

## Signing

If you have not signed the DCO and you submit a pull request to a repository under the Home Assistant organization, a link will be automatically generated. Just follow the link and the instructions in the link.

## Adoption

This Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) was first announced on January 21st, 2017 in [this][cla-blog] blog post and adopted January 28th, 2017.

[cla-blog]: /blog/2017/01/21/home-assistant-governance/
