source/_docs/mqtt/testing.markdown, before:

---
title: "MQTT Testing"
description: "Instructions on how to test your MQTT setup."
logo: mqtt.png
---

The `mosquitto` broker package ships commandline tools (often as `*-clients` package) to send and receive MQTT messages. As an alternative have a look at [hbmqtt_pub](https://hbmqtt.readthedocs.org/en/latest/references/hbmqtt_pub.html) and [hbmqtt_sub](https://hbmqtt.readthedocs.org/en/latest/references/hbmqtt_sub.html) which are provided by HBMQTT. For sending test messages to a broker running on localhost check the example below:

```bash
mosquitto_pub -h 127.0.0.1 -t home-assistant/switch/1/on -m "Switch is ON"
```

Another way to send MQTT messages manually is to use the "MQTT" Integration in the frontend. Choose the "Configuration" tab, click "Integrations" and click the "Configure" option under the "MQTT" integration. Enter something similar to the example below into the "topic" field under "Publish a packet*.

```bash
   home-assistant/switch/1/power
```

and in the Payload field

```bash
   ON
```

In the "Listen to a topic" field, type # to see everything, or "home-assistant/switch/#" to just follow the published topic. Press "Start Listening" and then press "Publish". The result should appear similar to the text below

```bash
Message 23 received on home-assistant/switch/1/power/stat/POWER at 12:16 PM:
ON
QoS: 0 - Retain: false
Message 22 received on home-assistant/switch/1/power/stat/RESULT at 12:16 PM:
{
    "POWER": "ON"
}
QoS: 0 - Retain: false
```

For reading all messages sent on the topic `home-assistant` to a broker running on localhost:

```bash
mosquitto_sub -h 127.0.0.1 -v -t "home-assistant/#"
```

Commit message:

Remove HBMQTT and update frontend part (#23031)

source/_docs/mqtt/testing.markdown, after:

---
title: "MQTT Testing"
description: "Instructions on how to test your MQTT setup."
logo: mqtt.png
---

The `mosquitto` broker package ships commandline tools (often as `*-clients` package) to send and receive MQTT messages. For sending test messages to a broker running on `localhost` check the example below:

```bash
mosquitto_pub -h 127.0.0.1 -t home-assistant/switch/1/on -m "Switch is ON"
```

Another way to send MQTT messages manually is to use the "MQTT" integration in the frontend. Choose "Settings" on the left menu, click "Devices & Services", and choose "Configure" in the "Mosquitto broker" tile. Enter something similar to the example below into the "topic" field under "Publish a packet" and press "PUBLISH" .

```bash
   home-assistant/switch/1/power
```

and in the Payload field

```bash
   ON
```

In the "Listen to a topic" field, type `#` to see everything, or "home-assistant/switch/#" to just follow a published topic, then press "START LISTENING". The messages should appear similar to the text below:

```bash
Message 23 received on home-assistant/switch/1/power/stat/POWER at 12:16 PM:
ON
QoS: 0 - Retain: false
Message 22 received on home-assistant/switch/1/power/stat/RESULT at 12:16 PM:
{
    "POWER": "ON"
}
QoS: 0 - Retain: false
```

For reading all messages sent on the topic `home-assistant` to a broker running on localhost:

```bash
mosquitto_sub -h 127.0.0.1 -v -t "home-assistant/#"
```
