source/_docs/automation/templating.markdown, before:

---
title: "Automation Trigger Variables"
description: "List all available variables made available by triggers."
---

Automations support [templating](/docs/configuration/templating/) in the same way as scripts do. In addition to the [Home Assistant template extensions](/docs/configuration/templating/#home-assistant-template-extensions) available to scripts, the `trigger` and `this` template variables are available.

The template variable `this` is also available when evaluating any `trigger_variables` declared in the configuration.

## Available this Data

Variable `this` is the [state object](/docs/configuration/state_object) of the automation. State objects also contain context data which can be used to identify the user that caused a script or automation to execute.

## Available Trigger Data

The following tables show the available trigger data per platform.

### All

The following describes trigger data associated with all platforms.

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.id` | Optional trigger `id`, or index of the trigger.
| `trigger.idx` | Index of the trigger.

### Calendar

| Template variable                    | Data                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `trigger.platform`                   | Hardcoded: `calendar`                                                                                                           |
| `trigger.event`                      | The trigger event type, either `start`  or `end`                                                                                |
| `trigger.calendar_event`             | The calendar event object matched.                                                                                              |
| `trigger.calendar_event.summary`     | The title or summary of the calendar event.                                                                                     |
| `trigger.calendar_event.start`       | String representation of the start date or date time of the calendar event e.g. `2022-04-10`, or `2022-04-10 11:30:00-07:00`    |
| `trigger.calendar_event.end`         | String representation of the end time of date time the calendar event in UTC  e.g. `2022-04-11`, or `2022-04-10 11:45:00-07:00` |
| `trigger.calendar_event.all_day`     | Indicates the event spans the entire day.                                                                                       |
| `trigger.calendar_event.description` | A detailed description of the calendar event, if available.                                                                     |
| `trigger.calendar_event.location`    | Location information for the calendar event, if available.                                                                      |
| `trigger.offset`                     | Timedelta object with offset to the event, if any |

### Device

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `device`.
| `trigger.event` | Event object that matched.
| `trigger.event.event_type` | Event type.
| `trigger.event.data` | Optional event data.

### Event

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `event`.
| `trigger.event` | Event object that matched.
| `trigger.event.event_type` | Event type.
| `trigger.event.data` | Optional event data.

### MQTT

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `mqtt`.
| `trigger.topic` | Topic that received payload.
| `trigger.payload` | Payload.
| `trigger.payload_json` | Dictionary of the JSON parsed payload.
| `trigger.qos` | QOS of payload.

### Numeric State

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `numeric_state`
| `trigger.entity_id` | Entity ID that we observe.
| `trigger.below` | The below threshold, if any.
| `trigger.above` | The above threshold, if any.
| `trigger.from_state` | The previous [state object] of the entity.
| `trigger.to_state` | The new [state object] that triggered trigger.
| `trigger.for` | Timedelta object how long state has met above/below criteria, if any.

### State

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `state`
| `trigger.entity_id` | Entity ID that we observe.
| `trigger.from_state` | The previous [state object] of the entity.
| `trigger.to_state` | The new [state object] that triggered trigger.
| `trigger.for` | Timedelta object how long state has been to state, if any.

### Sun

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `sun`
| `trigger.event` | The event that just happened: `sunset` or `sunrise`.
| `trigger.offset` | Timedelta object with offset to the event, if any.

### Template

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `template`
| `trigger.entity_id` | Entity ID that caused change.
| `trigger.from_state` | Previous [state object] of entity that caused change.
| `trigger.to_state` | New [state object] of entity that caused template to change.
| `trigger.for` | Timedelta object how long state has been to state, if any.

### Time

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `time`
| `trigger.now` | DateTime object that triggered the time trigger.

### Time Pattern

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `time_pattern`
| `trigger.now` | DateTime object that triggered the time_pattern trigger.

### Webhook

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `webhook`
| `trigger.webhook_id` | The webhook ID that was triggered.
| `trigger.json` | The JSON data of the request (if it had a JSON content type) as a mapping.
| `trigger.data` | The form data of the request (if it had a form data content type).
| `trigger.query` | The URL query parameters of the request (if provided).

### Zone

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `zone`
| `trigger.entity_id` | Entity ID that we are observing.
| `trigger.from_state` | Previous [state object] of the entity.
| `trigger.to_state` | New [state object] of the entity.
| `trigger.zone` | State object of zone
| `trigger.event` | Event that trigger observed: `enter` or `leave`.

## Examples

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entries
automation:
  trigger:
    - platform: state
      entity_id: device_tracker.paulus
      id: paulus_device
  action:
    - service: notify.notify
      data:
        message: >
          Paulus just changed from {{ trigger.from_state.state }}
          to {{ trigger.to_state.state }}
          
          This was triggered by {{ trigger.id }}

automation 2:
  trigger:
    - platform: mqtt
      topic: "/notify/+"
  action:
    service: >
      notify.{{ trigger.topic.split('/')[-1] }}
    data:
      message: "{{ trigger.payload }}"

automation 3:
  trigger:
    # Multiple entities for which you want to perform the same action.
    - platform: state
      entity_id:
        - light.bedroom_closet
        - light.kiddos_closet
        - light.linen_closet
      to: "on"
      # Trigger when someone leaves one of those lights on for 10 minutes.
      for: "00:10:00"
  action:
    - service: light.turn_off
      target:
        # Turn off whichever entity triggered the automation.
        entity_id: "{{ trigger.entity_id }}"
```

{% endraw %}

[state object]: /docs/configuration/state_object/

Commit message:

Clarify that this does not change
fixes https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/issues/21425

source/_docs/automation/templating.markdown, after:

---
title: "Automation Trigger Variables"
description: "List all available variables made available by triggers."
---

Automations support [templating](/docs/configuration/templating/) in the same way as scripts do. In addition to the [Home Assistant template extensions](/docs/configuration/templating/#home-assistant-template-extensions) available to scripts, the `trigger` and `this` template variables are available.

The template variable `this` is also available when evaluating any `trigger_variables` declared in the configuration.

## Available this Data

The variable `this` is the [state object](/docs/configuration/state_object) of the automation at the moment of triggering the actions. State objects also contain context data which can be used to identify the user that caused a script or automation to execute. Note that `this` will not change while executing the actions.

## Available Trigger Data

The following tables show the available trigger data per platform.

### All

The following describes trigger data associated with all platforms.

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.id` | Optional trigger `id`, or index of the trigger.
| `trigger.idx` | Index of the trigger.

### Calendar

| Template variable                    | Data                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `trigger.platform`                   | Hardcoded: `calendar`                                                                                                           |
| `trigger.event`                      | The trigger event type, either `start`  or `end`                                                                                |
| `trigger.calendar_event`             | The calendar event object matched.                                                                                              |
| `trigger.calendar_event.summary`     | The title or summary of the calendar event.                                                                                     |
| `trigger.calendar_event.start`       | String representation of the start date or date time of the calendar event e.g. `2022-04-10`, or `2022-04-10 11:30:00-07:00`    |
| `trigger.calendar_event.end`         | String representation of the end time of date time the calendar event in UTC  e.g. `2022-04-11`, or `2022-04-10 11:45:00-07:00` |
| `trigger.calendar_event.all_day`     | Indicates the event spans the entire day.                                                                                       |
| `trigger.calendar_event.description` | A detailed description of the calendar event, if available.                                                                     |
| `trigger.calendar_event.location`    | Location information for the calendar event, if available.                                                                      |
| `trigger.offset`                     | Timedelta object with offset to the event, if any |

### Device

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `device`.
| `trigger.event` | Event object that matched.
| `trigger.event.event_type` | Event type.
| `trigger.event.data` | Optional event data.

### Event

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `event`.
| `trigger.event` | Event object that matched.
| `trigger.event.event_type` | Event type.
| `trigger.event.data` | Optional event data.

### MQTT

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `mqtt`.
| `trigger.topic` | Topic that received payload.
| `trigger.payload` | Payload.
| `trigger.payload_json` | Dictionary of the JSON parsed payload.
| `trigger.qos` | QOS of payload.

### Numeric State

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `numeric_state`
| `trigger.entity_id` | Entity ID that we observe.
| `trigger.below` | The below threshold, if any.
| `trigger.above` | The above threshold, if any.
| `trigger.from_state` | The previous [state object] of the entity.
| `trigger.to_state` | The new [state object] that triggered trigger.
| `trigger.for` | Timedelta object how long state has met above/below criteria, if any.

### State

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `state`
| `trigger.entity_id` | Entity ID that we observe.
| `trigger.from_state` | The previous [state object] of the entity.
| `trigger.to_state` | The new [state object] that triggered trigger.
| `trigger.for` | Timedelta object how long state has been to state, if any.

### Sun

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `sun`
| `trigger.event` | The event that just happened: `sunset` or `sunrise`.
| `trigger.offset` | Timedelta object with offset to the event, if any.

### Template

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `template`
| `trigger.entity_id` | Entity ID that caused change.
| `trigger.from_state` | Previous [state object] of entity that caused change.
| `trigger.to_state` | New [state object] of entity that caused template to change.
| `trigger.for` | Timedelta object how long state has been to state, if any.

### Time

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `time`
| `trigger.now` | DateTime object that triggered the time trigger.

### Time Pattern

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `time_pattern`
| `trigger.now` | DateTime object that triggered the time_pattern trigger.

### Webhook

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `webhook`
| `trigger.webhook_id` | The webhook ID that was triggered.
| `trigger.json` | The JSON data of the request (if it had a JSON content type) as a mapping.
| `trigger.data` | The form data of the request (if it had a form data content type).
| `trigger.query` | The URL query parameters of the request (if provided).

### Zone

| Template variable | Data |
| ---- | ---- |
| `trigger.platform` | Hardcoded: `zone`
| `trigger.entity_id` | Entity ID that we are observing.
| `trigger.from_state` | Previous [state object] of the entity.
| `trigger.to_state` | New [state object] of the entity.
| `trigger.zone` | State object of zone
| `trigger.event` | Event that trigger observed: `enter` or `leave`.

## Examples

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entries
automation:
  trigger:
    - platform: state
      entity_id: device_tracker.paulus
      id: paulus_device
  action:
    - service: notify.notify
      data:
        message: >
          Paulus just changed from {{ trigger.from_state.state }}
          to {{ trigger.to_state.state }}
          
          This was triggered by {{ trigger.id }}

automation 2:
  trigger:
    - platform: mqtt
      topic: "/notify/+"
  action:
    service: >
      notify.{{ trigger.topic.split('/')[-1] }}
    data:
      message: "{{ trigger.payload }}"

automation 3:
  trigger:
    # Multiple entities for which you want to perform the same action.
    - platform: state
      entity_id:
        - light.bedroom_closet
        - light.kiddos_closet
        - light.linen_closet
      to: "on"
      # Trigger when someone leaves one of those lights on for 10 minutes.
      for: "00:10:00"
  action:
    - service: light.turn_off
      target:
        # Turn off whichever entity triggered the automation.
        entity_id: "{{ trigger.entity_id }}"
```

{% endraw %}

[state object]: /docs/configuration/state_object/
