source/_integrations/alarm_control_panel.mqtt.markdown, before:

---
title: "MQTT Alarm Control Panel"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate MQTT capable Alarm Panels into Home Assistant."
ha_category:
  - Alarm
ha_release: 0.7.4
ha_iot_class: Configurable
ha_domain: mqtt
---

The `mqtt` alarm panel platform enables the possibility to control MQTT capable alarm panels. The Alarm icon will change state after receiving a new state from `state_topic`. If these messages are published with *RETAIN* flag, the MQTT alarm panel will receive an instant state update after subscription and will start with the correct state. Otherwise, the initial state will be `unknown`.

The integration will accept the following states from your Alarm Panel (in lower case):

- `disarmed`
- `armed_home`
- `armed_away`
- `armed_night`
- `armed_custom_bypass`
- `pending`
- `triggered`
- `arming`
- `disarming`

The integration can control your Alarm Panel by publishing to the `command_topic` when a user interacts with the Home Assistant frontend.

## Configuration

To enable this platform, add the following lines to your `configuration.yaml`:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
alarm_control_panel:
  - platform: mqtt
    state_topic: "home/alarm"
    command_topic: "home/alarm/set"
```

{% configuration %}
availability:
  description: A list of MQTT topics subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability_topic`.
  required: false
  type: list
  keys:
    payload_available:
      description: The payload that represents the available state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: online
    payload_not_available:
      description: The payload that represents the unavailable state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: offline
    topic:
      description: An MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates.
      required: true
      type: string
availability_mode:
  description: When `availability` is configured, this controls the conditions needed to set the entity to `available`. Valid entries are `all`, `any`, and `latest`. If set to `all`, `payload_available` must be received on all configured availability topics before the entity is marked as online. If set to `any`, `payload_available` must be received on at least one configured availability topic before the entity is marked as online. If set to `latest`, the last `payload_available` or `payload_not_available` received on any configured availability topic controls the availability.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: latest
availability_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability`.
  required: false
  type: string
code:
  description: If defined, specifies a code to enable or disable the alarm in the frontend.
  required: false
  type: string
code_arm_required:
  description: If true the code is required to arm the alarm. If false the code is not validated.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: true
code_disarm_required:
  description: If true the code is required to disarm the alarm. If false the code is not validated.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: true
command_template:
  description: "The [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) used for the command payload. Available variables: `action` and `code`."
  required: false
  type: string
  default: action
command_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic to publish commands to change the alarm state.
  required: true
  type: string
device:
  description: "Information about the device this alarm panel is a part of to tie it into the [device registry](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/en/device_registry_index.html). Only works through [MQTT discovery](/docs/mqtt/discovery/) and when [`unique_id`](#unique_id) is set."
  required: false
  type: map
  keys:
    connections:
      description: 'A list of connections of the device to the outside world as a list of tuples `[connection_type, connection_identifier]`. For example the MAC address of a network interface: `"connections": [["mac", "02:5b:26:a8:dc:12"]]`.'
      required: false
      type: list
    identifiers:
      description: "A list of IDs that uniquely identify the device. For example a serial number."
      required: false
      type: [list, string]
    manufacturer:
      description: "The manufacturer of the device."
      required: false
      type: string
    model:
      description: "The model of the device."
      required: false
      type: string
    name:
      description: "The name of the device."
      required: false
      type: string
    sw_version:
      description: "The firmware version of the device."
      required: false
      type: string
    via_device:
      description: "Identifier of a device that routes messages between this device and Home Assistant. Examples of such devices are hubs, or parent devices of a sub-device. This is used to show device topology in Home Assistant."
      required: false
      type: string
json_attributes_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the JSON dictionary from messages received on the `json_attributes_topic`. Usage example can be found in [MQTT sensor](/integrations/sensor.mqtt/#json-attributes-template-configuration) documentation."
  required: false
  type: template
json_attributes_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive a JSON dictionary payload and then set as sensor attributes. Usage example can be found in [MQTT sensor](/integrations/sensor.mqtt/#json-attributes-topic-configuration) documentation.
  required: false
  type: string
name:
  description: The name of the alarm.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: MQTT Alarm
payload_arm_away:
  description: The payload to set armed-away mode on your Alarm Panel.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: ARM_AWAY
payload_arm_home:
  description: The payload to set armed-home mode on your Alarm Panel.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: ARM_HOME
payload_arm_night:
  description: The payload to set armed-night mode on your Alarm Panel.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: ARM_NIGHT
payload_arm_custom_bypass:
  description: The payload to set armed-custom-bypass mode on your Alarm Panel.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: ARM_CUSTOM_BYPASS
payload_available:
  description: The payload that represents the available state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: online
payload_disarm:
  description: The payload to disarm your Alarm Panel.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: DISARM
payload_not_available:
  description: The payload that represents the unavailable state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: offline
qos:
  description: The maximum QoS level of the state topic.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
retain:
  description: If the published message should have the retain flag on or not.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
state_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive state updates.
  required: true
  type: string
unique_id:
   description: An ID that uniquely identifies this alarm panel. If two alarm panels have the same unique ID, Home Assistant will raise an exception.
   required: false
   type: string
value_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the value."
  required: false
  type: template
{% endconfiguration %}

Commit message:

Update documentation MQTT suggested_area (#17003)
Add MQTT suggested_area to the documentation (next branch)

source/_integrations/alarm_control_panel.mqtt.markdown, after:

---
title: "MQTT Alarm Control Panel"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate MQTT capable Alarm Panels into Home Assistant."
ha_category:
  - Alarm
ha_release: 0.7.4
ha_iot_class: Configurable
ha_domain: mqtt
---

The `mqtt` alarm panel platform enables the possibility to control MQTT capable alarm panels. The Alarm icon will change state after receiving a new state from `state_topic`. If these messages are published with *RETAIN* flag, the MQTT alarm panel will receive an instant state update after subscription and will start with the correct state. Otherwise, the initial state will be `unknown`.

The integration will accept the following states from your Alarm Panel (in lower case):

- `disarmed`
- `armed_home`
- `armed_away`
- `armed_night`
- `armed_custom_bypass`
- `pending`
- `triggered`
- `arming`
- `disarming`

The integration can control your Alarm Panel by publishing to the `command_topic` when a user interacts with the Home Assistant frontend.

## Configuration

To enable this platform, add the following lines to your `configuration.yaml`:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
alarm_control_panel:
  - platform: mqtt
    state_topic: "home/alarm"
    command_topic: "home/alarm/set"
```

{% configuration %}
availability:
  description: A list of MQTT topics subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability_topic`.
  required: false
  type: list
  keys:
    payload_available:
      description: The payload that represents the available state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: online
    payload_not_available:
      description: The payload that represents the unavailable state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: offline
    topic:
      description: An MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates.
      required: true
      type: string
availability_mode:
  description: When `availability` is configured, this controls the conditions needed to set the entity to `available`. Valid entries are `all`, `any`, and `latest`. If set to `all`, `payload_available` must be received on all configured availability topics before the entity is marked as online. If set to `any`, `payload_available` must be received on at least one configured availability topic before the entity is marked as online. If set to `latest`, the last `payload_available` or `payload_not_available` received on any configured availability topic controls the availability.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: latest
availability_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability`.
  required: false
  type: string
code:
  description: If defined, specifies a code to enable or disable the alarm in the frontend.
  required: false
  type: string
code_arm_required:
  description: If true the code is required to arm the alarm. If false the code is not validated.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: true
code_disarm_required:
  description: If true the code is required to disarm the alarm. If false the code is not validated.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: true
command_template:
  description: "The [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) used for the command payload. Available variables: `action` and `code`."
  required: false
  type: string
  default: action
command_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic to publish commands to change the alarm state.
  required: true
  type: string
device:
  description: "Information about the device this alarm panel is a part of to tie it into the [device registry](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/en/device_registry_index.html). Only works through [MQTT discovery](/docs/mqtt/discovery/) and when [`unique_id`](#unique_id) is set."
  required: false
  type: map
  keys:
    connections:
      description: 'A list of connections of the device to the outside world as a list of tuples `[connection_type, connection_identifier]`. For example the MAC address of a network interface: `"connections": [["mac", "02:5b:26:a8:dc:12"]]`.'
      required: false
      type: list
    identifiers:
      description: "A list of IDs that uniquely identify the device. For example a serial number."
      required: false
      type: [list, string]
    manufacturer:
      description: "The manufacturer of the device."
      required: false
      type: string
    model:
      description: "The model of the device."
      required: false
      type: string
    name:
      description: "The name of the device."
      required: false
      type: string
    suggested_area:
      description: 'Suggest an area if the device isn’t in one yet.'
      required: false
      type: string
    sw_version:
      description: "The firmware version of the device."
      required: false
      type: string
    via_device:
      description: "Identifier of a device that routes messages between this device and Home Assistant. Examples of such devices are hubs, or parent devices of a sub-device. This is used to show device topology in Home Assistant."
      required: false
      type: string
json_attributes_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the JSON dictionary from messages received on the `json_attributes_topic`. Usage example can be found in [MQTT sensor](/integrations/sensor.mqtt/#json-attributes-template-configuration) documentation."
  required: false
  type: template
json_attributes_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive a JSON dictionary payload and then set as sensor attributes. Usage example can be found in [MQTT sensor](/integrations/sensor.mqtt/#json-attributes-topic-configuration) documentation.
  required: false
  type: string
name:
  description: The name of the alarm.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: MQTT Alarm
payload_arm_away:
  description: The payload to set armed-away mode on your Alarm Panel.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: ARM_AWAY
payload_arm_home:
  description: The payload to set armed-home mode on your Alarm Panel.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: ARM_HOME
payload_arm_night:
  description: The payload to set armed-night mode on your Alarm Panel.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: ARM_NIGHT
payload_arm_custom_bypass:
  description: The payload to set armed-custom-bypass mode on your Alarm Panel.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: ARM_CUSTOM_BYPASS
payload_available:
  description: The payload that represents the available state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: online
payload_disarm:
  description: The payload to disarm your Alarm Panel.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: DISARM
payload_not_available:
  description: The payload that represents the unavailable state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: offline
qos:
  description: The maximum QoS level of the state topic.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
retain:
  description: If the published message should have the retain flag on or not.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
state_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive state updates.
  required: true
  type: string
unique_id:
   description: An ID that uniquely identifies this alarm panel. If two alarm panels have the same unique ID, Home Assistant will raise an exception.
   required: false
   type: string
value_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the value."
  required: false
  type: template
{% endconfiguration %}
