source/_integrations/analytics.markdown, before:

---
title: Analytics
description: Share system analytics and diagnostics
ha_category:
  - Other
ha_release: 2021.4
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_quality_scale: internal
ha_codeowners:
  - '@home-assistant/core'
  - '@ludeeus'
ha_domain: analytics
---

Home Assistant allows users to share their usage data via the analytics integration. The aggregated data is available at <https://analytics.home-assistant.io>. It is used to influence Home Assistant development priorities and to convince manufacturers to add local control and privacy-focused features.

## Data Collection

The information sent depends on what you opt-in to. You can opt-in during onboarding and by going to **{% my general title="Configuration >> General" %}**.

**{% my general badge %}**

When enabled, data will be sent 15 minutes after each start, and every 24h after startup. Sent data is printed to your log.

### Basic analytics

This includes:

- Unique identifier for your system (to ensure each installation is counted once)
- Home Assistant version
- Home Assistant installation type
- Your country (derived server-side from your IP-address)

If your system includes the Supervisor, this will also contain:

- If your installation is supported
- If your installation is healthy

{% details Example payload %}

```json
{
  "uuid": "12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3",
  "version": "2021.4.0",
  "installation_type": "Home Assistant OS",
  "supervisor": {
    "healthy": true,
    "supported": true
  }
}
```

{% enddetails %}

### Usage analytics

_Requires basic analytics to be enabled._

This includes:

- The names of all your integrations

If your system includes the Supervisor, this will also contain:

- For each add-on
  - Name
  - Version
  - If protection mode is enabled
  - If auto update is enabled

{% details Example payload %}

```json
{
  "uuid": "12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3",
  "version": "2021.4.0",
  "installation_type": "Home Assistant OS",
  "supervisor": {
    "healthy": true,
    "supported": true
  },
  "integrations": ["awesome_integration"],
    "addons": [
        {
            "slug": "awesome_addon",
            "protected": true,
            "version": "1.0.0",
            "auto_update": false
        }
    ]
}
```

{% enddetails %}

### Statistics

_Requires basic analytics to be enabled._

This includes:

- Number of integrations
- Number of users
- Number of entities
- Number of automations

If your system includes the Supervisor, this will also contain:

- Number of installed add-ons

{% details Example payload %}

```json
{
  "uuid": "12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3",
  "version": "2021.4.0",
  "installation_type": "Home Assistant OS",
  "supervisor": {
    "healthy": true,
    "supported": true
  },
  "state_count": 1,
  "automation_count": 2,
  "integration_count": 3,
  "addon_count": 4,
  "user_count": 5
}
```

{% enddetails %}

### Diagnostics

If enabled, a crash report will be collected when an unexpected error occurs and uploaded to [Sentry](https://sentry.io). These reports will help fix bugs and improve performance and stability.

Crash reports are only visible to the Home Assistant Core developers. This feature is currently limited to the Supervisor.

## Data storage & processing

All data is received and processed by the Home Assistant Analytics Receiver ([source](https://github.com/home-assistant/analytics.home-assistant.io)).

When your installation sends a payload, that payload includes a unique identifier. This identifier is used to make sure that your installation is only counted once.

Your data is securely stored in [CloudFlare's Key-Value store](https://www.cloudflare.com/products/workers-kv/). It will be stored for a maximum of 60 days since the last update. Only aggregated data is made publicly available.

This is an example of how the information is stored:
{% configuration_basic %}
"uuid:12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3":
  description: "{'version': '2021.4.0', 'installation_type': 'Home Assistant OS', 'country': 'NO'}"

{% endconfiguration_basic %}

Commit message:

Specify only the owner can set analytics settings

source/_integrations/analytics.markdown, after:

---
title: Analytics
description: Share system analytics and diagnostics
ha_category:
  - Other
ha_release: 2021.4
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_quality_scale: internal
ha_codeowners:
  - '@home-assistant/core'
  - '@ludeeus'
ha_domain: analytics
---

Home Assistant allows users to share their usage data via the analytics integration. The aggregated data is available at <https://analytics.home-assistant.io>. It is used to influence Home Assistant development priorities and to convince manufacturers to add local control and privacy-focused features.

## Data Collection

The information sent depends on what you opt-in to. You can opt-in during onboarding and by going to **{% my general title="Configuration >> General" %}** when logged in with the _owner_ account.

**{% my general badge %}**

When enabled, data will be sent 15 minutes after each start, and every 24h after startup. Sent data is printed to your log.

### Basic analytics

This includes:

- Unique identifier for your system (to ensure each installation is counted once)
- Home Assistant version
- Home Assistant installation type
- Your country (derived server-side from your IP-address)

If your system includes the Supervisor, this will also contain:

- If your installation is supported
- If your installation is healthy

{% details Example payload %}

```json
{
  "uuid": "12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3",
  "version": "2021.4.0",
  "installation_type": "Home Assistant OS",
  "supervisor": {
    "healthy": true,
    "supported": true
  }
}
```

{% enddetails %}

### Usage analytics

_Requires basic analytics to be enabled._

This includes:

- The names of all your integrations

If your system includes the Supervisor, this will also contain:

- For each add-on
  - Name
  - Version
  - If protection mode is enabled
  - If auto update is enabled

{% details Example payload %}

```json
{
  "uuid": "12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3",
  "version": "2021.4.0",
  "installation_type": "Home Assistant OS",
  "supervisor": {
    "healthy": true,
    "supported": true
  },
  "integrations": ["awesome_integration"],
    "addons": [
        {
            "slug": "awesome_addon",
            "protected": true,
            "version": "1.0.0",
            "auto_update": false
        }
    ]
}
```

{% enddetails %}

### Statistics

_Requires basic analytics to be enabled._

This includes:

- Number of integrations
- Number of users
- Number of entities
- Number of automations

If your system includes the Supervisor, this will also contain:

- Number of installed add-ons

{% details Example payload %}

```json
{
  "uuid": "12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3",
  "version": "2021.4.0",
  "installation_type": "Home Assistant OS",
  "supervisor": {
    "healthy": true,
    "supported": true
  },
  "state_count": 1,
  "automation_count": 2,
  "integration_count": 3,
  "addon_count": 4,
  "user_count": 5
}
```

{% enddetails %}

### Diagnostics

If enabled, a crash report will be collected when an unexpected error occurs and uploaded to [Sentry](https://sentry.io). These reports will help fix bugs and improve performance and stability.

Crash reports are only visible to the Home Assistant Core developers. This feature is currently limited to the Supervisor.

## Data storage & processing

All data is received and processed by the Home Assistant Analytics Receiver ([source](https://github.com/home-assistant/analytics.home-assistant.io)).

When your installation sends a payload, that payload includes a unique identifier. This identifier is used to make sure that your installation is only counted once.

Your data is securely stored in [CloudFlare's Key-Value store](https://www.cloudflare.com/products/workers-kv/). It will be stored for a maximum of 60 days since the last update. Only aggregated data is made publicly available.

This is an example of how the information is stored:
{% configuration_basic %}
"uuid:12a3456bc78d90123ef4567g789012h3":
  description: "{'version': '2021.4.0', 'installation_type': 'Home Assistant OS', 'country': 'NO'}"

{% endconfiguration_basic %}
