source/_integrations/anthemav.markdown, before:

---
title: Anthem A/V Receivers
description: Instructions on how to integrate Anthem A/V Receivers into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media Player
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_release: 0.37
ha_domain: anthemav
ha_platforms:
  - media_player
ha_integration_type: integration
---

Both [Anthem]'s current and last generation of A/V Receivers and Processors support IP-based, network control. This Home Assistant platform adds proper "local push" support for any of these receivers on your network.

## Supported Models

* [MRX 520](https://www.anthemav.com/products-current/series=mrx-series-gen3/model=mrx-520/page=overview), [MRX 720](https://www.anthemav.com/products-current/collection=performance/model=mrx-720/page=overview), [MRX 1120](https://www.anthemav.com/products-current/collection=performance/model=mrx-1120/page=overview), and [AVM 60](https://www.anthemav.com/products-current/model=avm-60/page=overview)
* [MRX 310](https://www.anthemav.com/products-archived/type=av-receiver/model=mrx-310/page=overview), [MRX 510](https://www.anthemav.com/products-archived/series=mrx-series/model=mrx-510/page=overview), [MRX 710](https://www.anthemav.com/products-archived/type=av-receiver/model=mrx-710/page=overview)

Support is provided through the Python [anthemav] module. Older, RS-232 serial-based units like the [D2v series](https://www.anthemav.com/products-archived/model=d2v/page=overview) use a different protocol entirely and are not currently supported.

[Anthem]: https://www.anthemav.com/
[anthemav]: https://github.com/nugget/python-anthemav

To use your Anthem A/V Receiver in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
media_player:
  - platform: anthemav
    host: IP_ADDRESS
```

{% configuration %}
host:
  description: The host name or the IP address of the device.
  required: true
  type: string
port:
  description: The port number of the device.
  required: false
  default: 14999
  type: integer
name:
  description: The name of the device used in the frontend.
  required: false
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

## Notes and Limitations

* The tuner is currently unsupported as are the `media_player` play, pause, prev, and next controls.
* Enabling this platform will set and enforce "Standby IP Control On" in your Anthem device.  You almost certainly want this.  If you disable it on the device, it will just get re-enabled by Home Assistant.
* Only Zone 1 is currently supported.

<div class='note warning'>

This platform will maintain a persistent connection to the network control port which will prevent any other application from communicating with the receiver. This includes the Anthem iOS and Android remote control apps as well as the ARC-2 Anthem Room Calibration software. You will need to disable this platform and restart Home Assistant if you want to use another
application that makes use of the network control port.
<br /><br />
*The underlying Python module has hooks for halting and resuming the network connection but those functions are currently unsupported by the Home Assistant platform.*

</div>

Commit message:

Add config flow to AnthemAv integration

source/_integrations/anthemav.markdown, after:

---
title: Anthem A/V Receivers
description: Instructions on how to integrate Anthem A/V Receivers into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media Player
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_release: 0.37
ha_domain: anthemav
ha_codeowners:
  - '@hyralex'
ha_config_flow: true
ha_platforms:
  - media_player
ha_integration_type: integration
---

Both [Anthem]'s current and last generation of A/V Receivers and Processors support IP-based, network control. This Home Assistant platform adds proper "local push" support for any of these receivers on your network.

## Supported Models

* [MRX 520](https://www.anthemav.com/products-current/series=mrx-series-gen3/model=mrx-520/page=overview), [MRX 720](https://www.anthemav.com/products-current/collection=performance/model=mrx-720/page=overview), [MRX 1120](https://www.anthemav.com/products-current/collection=performance/model=mrx-1120/page=overview), and [AVM 60](https://www.anthemav.com/products-current/model=avm-60/page=overview)
* [MRX 310](https://www.anthemav.com/products-archived/type=av-receiver/model=mrx-310/page=overview), [MRX 510](https://www.anthemav.com/products-archived/series=mrx-series/model=mrx-510/page=overview), [MRX 710](https://www.anthemav.com/products-archived/type=av-receiver/model=mrx-710/page=overview)

If your model is not on the list then give it a test, if everything works correctly then add it to the list by clicking on the **Edit this page on GitHub** link above.

Support is provided through the Python [anthemav] module. Older, RS-232 serial-based units like the [D2v series](https://www.anthemav.com/products-archived/model=d2v/page=overview) use a different protocol entirely and are not currently supported.

[Anthem]: https://www.anthemav.com/
[anthemav]: https://github.com/nugget/python-anthemav

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
host:
  description: The host name or the IP address of the device.
  required: true
  type: string
port:
  description: The port number of the device.
  required: false
  default: 14999
  type: integer
name:
  description: The name of the device used in the frontend.
  required: false
  default: Anthem AV
  type: string
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Notes and Limitations

* The tuner is currently unsupported as are the `media_player` play, pause, prev, and next controls.
* Enabling this platform will set and enforce "Standby IP Control On" in your Anthem device.  You almost certainly want this.  If you disable it on the device, it will just get re-enabled by Home Assistant.
* Only Zone 1 is currently supported.

<div class='note warning'>

This platform will maintain a persistent connection to the network control port which will prevent any other application from communicating with the receiver. This includes the Anthem iOS and Android remote control apps as well as the ARC-2 Anthem Room Calibration software. You will need to disable this platform and restart Home Assistant if you want to use another
application that makes use of the network control port.
<br /><br />
*The underlying Python module has hooks for halting and resuming the network connection but those functions are currently unsupported by the Home Assistant platform.*

</div>
