source/_integrations/bosch_shc.markdown, before:

---
title: Bosch SHC
description: Integrate Bosch SHC.
ha_category:
  - Binary Sensor
ha_release: 2021.6
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@tschamm'
ha_domain: bosch_shc
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
ha_zeroconf: true
---

The Bosch SHC integration allows you to integrate your [Bosch SHC](https://www.bosch-smarthome.com) into Home Assistant.

There is currently support for the following device types within Home Assistant:

- [Binary Sensor](#binary-sensor)

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Binary Sensor

The binary sensor platform allows you to monitor the states of your Shutter Contacts and Smoke Detectors. Binary sensors are added for each Door/Window Contact and Smoke Detector.

## Client registration

Before accessing the Bosch Smart Home Controller, a client must be registered on the controller. For this, a valid SSL cert/key pair must be registered on the controller. To start the client registration, press and hold the button on the controller until the LED starts flashing. For more information, follow the [client registration](https://github.com/BoschSmartHome/bosch-shc-api-docs/tree/master/postman#register-a-new-client-to-the-bosch-smart-home-controller) steps described in the Bosch SHC API documentation.

Commit message:

Add bosch shc documentation for sensor devices (#17852)

source/_integrations/bosch_shc.markdown, after:

---
title: Bosch SHC
description: Integrate Bosch SHC.
ha_category:
  - Binary Sensor
ha_release: 2021.6
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@tschamm'
ha_domain: bosch_shc
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
ha_zeroconf: true
---

The Bosch SHC integration allows you to integrate your [Bosch Smart Home Controller](https://www.bosch-smarthome.com) into Home Assistant.

There is currently support for the following device types within Home Assistant:

- [Binary Sensor](#binary-sensor)
- [Sensor](#sensor)

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Binary Sensor

The binary sensor platform allows you to monitor the states of your shutter contact sensors. Binary sensor devices are added for each of the following devices:

- Shutter Contact

### Sensor

The sensor platform allows you to monitor the states of your temperature, humidity, purity, air quality, power, energy, valve tappet and battery sensors. Sensor devices are added for each of the following devices:

- Thermostat
- Wall Thermostat
- Twinguard
- Smart Plug
- Smart Plug Compact
- Smoke Detector
- Shutter Contact
- Universal Switch

## Client registration

To start the client registration, press and hold the button on the controller until the LED starts flashing. During configuration, a client SSL cert/key pair is generated and registered on the controller. For this step, the system password of your controller is needed, which was created upon initial setup of the controller.
