---
title: Coinbase
description: Instructions for how to add Coinbase sensors to Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Finance
  - Sensor
ha_release: 0.61
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_domain: coinbase
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
---

The `coinbase` integration lets you access account balances and exchange rates from [coinbase](https://coinbase.com).

You will need to obtain an API key from Coinbase's [developer site](https://www.coinbase.com/settings/api) to use this integration. You need to select the account wallet or wallets (e.g. "BTC Wallet") that you wish to show in home assistant and give read access to `wallet:accounts` in order for the integration to access relevant data. It is worth noting that once you close the New API Key popup on Coinbase you will not be able to see the API Secret again.

## Configuration

The Coinbase integration is configured through Home Assistant's user interface, go the **Configuration** page then the **Integrations** page, click the `+` button and select Coinbase from the list of integrations. There will be a short delay while the integration's dependencies are installed after which you will be presented with a form to enter the required information to configure the integration.

### Configuration Values

{% configuration %}
API Key:
  description: Your API key generated by Coinbase.
  required: true
  type: string
API Secret:
  description: Your API secret generated by Coinbase.
  required: true
  type: string
Account Balance Currencies:
  description: List of currency codes to create account wallet sensors for. Separate multiple currencies with a comma `,` e.g. `BTC, EUR, ATOM`, codes should match those listed in the API key popup for cryptocurrencies or [ISO 4217](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) for physical currencies.
  required: false
  type: list
exchange_rate_currencies:
  description: List of currencies to create exchange rate sensors for. Separate multiple currencies with a comma `,` e.g. `BTC, EUR, ATOM`, codes should match those listed in the API key popup for cryptocurrencies or [ISO 4217](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217) for physical currencies.
  required: false
  type: list
{% endconfiguration %}


### Text-Based Configuration (Deprecated)

Configuring the Coinbase integration using `configuration.yaml` is deprecated and will be removed in a future version of Home Assistant. As of 2021.2.1, any `coinbase:` configuration will have been migrated and the `coinbase:` entry in `configuration.yaml` can be deleted.

A complete configuration entry is shown below, the `account_balance_currencies` and `exchange_rate_currencies` are optional.

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
coinbase:
  api_key: YOUR_API_KEY
  api_secret: YOUR_API_SECRET
  account_balance_currencies:
    - EUR
    - BTC
  exchange_rate_currencies:
    - BTC
    - ETH
    - LTC
```
