source/_integrations/cover.mqtt.markdown, before:

---
title: "MQTT Cover"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate MQTT covers into Home Assistant."
ha_category:
  - Cover
ha_iot_class: Configurable
ha_release: 0.18
ha_domain: mqtt
---

The `mqtt` cover platform allows you to control an MQTT cover (such as blinds, a roller shutter or a garage door).

## Configuration

A cover entity can be in states (`open`, `opening`, `closed` or `closing`).

If a `state_topic` is configured, the entity's state will be updated only after an MQTT message is received on `state_topic` matching `state_open`, `state_opening`, `state_closed` or `state_closing`. For covers that only report 3 states (`opening`, `closing`, `stopped`), a `state_stopped` state can be configured to indicate that the device is not moving. When this payload is received on the `state_topic`, and a `position_topic` is not configured, the cover will be set to state `closed` if its state was `closing` and to state `open` otherwise. If a `position_topic` is set, the cover's position will be used to set the state to either `open` or `closed` state.

If the cover reports its position, a `position_topic` can be configured for receiving the position. If no `state_topic` is configured, the cover's state will be set to either `open` or `closed` when a position is received.

If the cover reports its tilt position, a `tilt_status_topic` can be configured for receiving the tilt position.
If position topic and state topic are both defined, the device state (`open`, `opening`, `closed` or `closing`) will be set by the state topic and the cover position will be set by the position topic.

If neither a state topic nor a position topic are defined, the cover will work in optimistic mode. In this mode, the cover will immediately change state (`open` or `closed`) after every command sent by Home Assistant. If a state topic/position topic is defined, the cover will wait for a message on `state_topic` or `position_topic`.

Optimistic mode can be forced, even if a `state_topic` / `position_topic` is defined. Try to enable it if experiencing incorrect cover operation (Google Assistant gauge may need optimistic mode as it often send request to your Home Assistant immediately after send set_cover_position in which case MQTT could be too slow).

The `mqtt` cover platform optionally supports a list of `availability` topics to receive online and offline messages (birth and LWT messages) from the MQTT cover device. During normal operation, if the MQTT cover device goes offline (i.e., publishes a matching `payload_not_available` to any `availability` topic), Home Assistant will display the cover as "unavailable". If these messages are published with the `retain` flag set, the cover will receive an instant update after subscription and Home Assistant will display correct availability state of the cover when Home Assistant starts up. If the `retain` flag is not set, Home Assistant will display the cover as "unavailable" when Home Assistant starts up.

To use your MQTT cover in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
cover:
  - platform: mqtt
    command_topic: "home-assistant/cover/set"
```

{% configuration %}
availability:
  description: "A list of MQTT topics subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability_topic`."
  required: false
  type: list
  keys:
    payload_available:
      description: The payload that represents the available state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: online
    payload_not_available:
      description: The payload that represents the unavailable state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: offline
    topic:
      description: An MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates.
      required: true
      type: string
availability_mode:
  description: When `availability` is configured, this controls the conditions needed to set the entity to `available`. Valid entries are `all`, `any`, and `latest`. If set to `all`, `payload_available` must be received on all configured availability topics before the entity is marked as online. If set to `any`, `payload_available` must be received on at least one configured availability topic before the entity is marked as online. If set to `latest`, the last `payload_available` or `payload_not_available` received on any configured availability topic controls the availability.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: latest
availability_topic:
  description: "The MQTT topic subscribed to to receive birth and LWT messages from the MQTT cover device. If an `availability` topic is not defined, the cover availability state will always be `available`. If an `availability` topic is defined, the cover availability state will be `unavailable` by default. Must not be used together with `availability`."
  required: false
  type: string
command_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic to publish commands to control the cover.
  required: false
  type: string
device:
  description: "Information about the device this cover is a part of to tie it into the [device registry](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/en/device_registry_index.html). Only works through [MQTT discovery](/docs/mqtt/discovery/) and when [`unique_id`](#unique_id) is set."
  required: false
  type: map
  keys:
    connections:
      description: 'A list of connections of the device to the outside world as a list of tuples `[connection_type, connection_identifier]`. For example the MAC address of a network interface: `"connections": ["mac", "02:5b:26:a8:dc:12"]`.'
      required: false
      type: list
    identifiers:
      description: 'A list of IDs that uniquely identify the device. For example a serial number.'
      required: false
      type: [list, string]
    manufacturer:
      description: The manufacturer of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    model:
      description: The model of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    name:
      description: The name of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    sw_version:
      description: The firmware version of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    via_device:
      description: 'Identifier of a device that routes messages between this device and Home Assistant. Examples of such devices are hubs, or parent devices of a sub-device. This is used to show device topology in Home Assistant.'
      required: false
      type: string
device_class:
  description: Sets the [class of the device](/integrations/cover/), changing the device state and icon that is displayed on the frontend.
  required: false
  type: string
json_attributes_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the JSON dictionary from messages received on the `json_attributes_topic`. Usage example can be found in [MQTT sensor](/integrations/sensor.mqtt/#json-attributes-template-configuration) documentation."
  required: false
  type: template
json_attributes_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive a JSON dictionary payload and then set as sensor attributes. Usage example can be found in [MQTT sensor](/integrations/sensor.mqtt/#json-attributes-topic-configuration) documentation.
  required: false
  type: string
name:
  description: The name of the cover.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: MQTT Cover
optimistic:
  description: Flag that defines if switch works in optimistic mode.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: "`false` if state or position topic defined, else `true`."
payload_available:
  description: The payload that represents the online state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: online
payload_close:
  description: The command payload that closes the cover.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: CLOSE
payload_not_available:
  description: The payload that represents the offline state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: offline
payload_open:
  description: The command payload that opens the cover.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: OPEN
payload_stop:
  description: The command payload that stops the cover.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: STOP
position_closed:
  description: Number which represents closed position.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
position_open:
  description: Number which represents open position.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 100
position_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/topics/templating/) that can be used to extract the payload for the `position_topic` topic."
  required: false
  type: string
position_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive cover position messages.
  required: false
  type: string
qos:
  description: The maximum QoS level to be used when receiving and publishing messages.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
retain:
  description: Defines if published messages should have the retain flag set.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
set_position_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/topics/templating/) to define the position to be sent to the `set_position_topic` topic. Incoming position value is available for use in the template `{{position}}`. If no template is defined, the position (0-100) will be calculated according to `position_open` and `position_closed` values."
  required: false
  type: string
set_position_topic:
  description: "The MQTT topic to publish position commands to. You need to set position_topic as well if you want to use position topic. Use template if position topic wants different values than within range `position_closed` - `position_open`. If template is not defined and `position_closed != 100` and `position_open != 0` then proper position value is calculated from percentage position."
  required: false
  type: string
state_closed:
  description: The payload that represents the closed state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: closed
state_closing:
  description: The payload that represents the closing state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: closing
state_open:
  description: The payload that represents the open state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: open
state_opening:
  description: The payload that represents the opening state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: opening
state_stopped:
  description: The payload that represents the stopped state (for covers that do not report `open`/`closed` state).
  required: false
  type: string
  default: stopped
state_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive cover state messages. State topic can only read (`open`, `opening`, `closed`, `closing` or `stopped`) state.
  required: false
  type: string
tilt_closed_value:
  description: The value that will be sent on a `close_cover_tilt` command.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
tilt_command_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/topics/templating/) that can be used to extract the payload for the `tilt_command_topic` topic."
  required: false
  type: string
tilt_command_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic to publish commands to control the cover tilt.
  required: false
  type: string
tilt_max:
  description: The maximum tilt value
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 100
tilt_min:
  description: The minimum tilt value.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
tilt_opened_value:
  description: The value that will be sent on an `open_cover_tilt` command.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 100
tilt_optimistic:
  description: Flag that determines if tilt works in optimistic mode.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: "`true` if `tilt_status_topic` is not defined, else `false`"
tilt_status_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/topics/templating/) that can be used to extract the payload for the `tilt_status_topic` topic."
  required: false
  type: string
tilt_status_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive tilt status update values.
  required: false
  type: string
unique_id:
  description: An ID that uniquely identifies this cover. If two covers have the same unique ID, Home Assistant will raise an exception.
  required: false
  type: string
value_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/topics/templating/) that can be used to extract the payload for the `state_topic` topic."
  required: false
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

<div class="note">

MQTT cover expects position and tilt values to be in range of 0 to 100, where 0 indicates closed position and 100 indicates fully open position.
If position `min` or `max` are set to a different range (e.g. 40 to 140), when sending command to the device the range will be adjusted to the device range (position 0 will send a value of 40 to device) and when position payload is received from the device it will be adjusted back to the 0 to 100 range (device value of 40 will report cover position 0).
`min` and `max` can also be used to reverse the direction of the device, if `min` is set to 100 and `max` is set to `0` device operation will be inverted (e.g. when setting position to 40, a value of 60 will be sent to device).

</div>

## Examples

In this section you will find some real-life examples of how to use this platform.

### Full configuration state topic without tilt

The example below shows a full configuration for a cover without tilt with state topic only.

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
cover:
  - platform: mqtt
    name: "MQTT Cover"
    command_topic: "home-assistant/cover/set"
    state_topic: "home-assistant/cover/state"
    availability:
      - topic: "home-assistant/cover/availability"
    qos: 0
    retain: true
    payload_open: "OPEN"
    payload_close: "CLOSE"
    payload_stop: "STOP"
    state_open: "open"
    state_opening: "opening"
    state_closed: "closed"
    state_closing: "closing"
    payload_available: "online"
    payload_not_available: "offline"
    optimistic: false
    value_template: "{{ value.x }}"
```

{% endraw %}

### Full configuration position topic without tilt

The example below shows a full configuration for a cover without tilt with position topic.

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
cover:
  - platform: mqtt
    name: "MQTT Cover"
    command_topic: "home-assistant/cover/set"
    position_topic: "home-assistant/cover/position"
    availability:
      - "home-assistant/cover/availability"
    set_position_topic: "home-assistant/cover/set_position"
    qos: 0
    retain: true
    payload_open: "OPEN"
    payload_close: "CLOSE"
    payload_stop: "STOP"
    position_open: 100
    position_closed: 0
    payload_available: "online"
    payload_not_available: "offline"
    optimistic: false
    value_template: "{{ value.x }}"
```

{% endraw %}

### Full configuration for position, state and tilt

The example below shows a full configuration for a cover with position, state & tilt.

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
cover:
  - platform: mqtt
    name: "MQTT Cover"
    command_topic: "home-assistant/cover/set"
    state_topic: "home-assistant/cover/state"
    position_topic: "home-assistant/cover/position"
    availability:
      - topic: "home-assistant/cover/availability"
    qos: 0
    retain: true
    payload_open: "OPEN"
    payload_close: "CLOSE"
    payload_stop: "STOP"
    state_open: "open"
    state_opening: "opening"
    state_closed: "closed"
    state_closing: "closing"
    payload_available: "online"
    payload_not_available: "offline"
    optimistic: false
    value_template: "{{ value.x }}"
    position_template: "{{ value.y }}"
    tilt_command_topic: "home-assistant/cover/tilt"
    tilt_status_topic: "home-assistant/cover/tilt-state"
    tilt_status_template: "{{ value_json["PWM"]["PWM1"] }}"
    tilt_min: 0
    tilt_max: 180
    tilt_closed_value: 70
    tilt_opened_value: 180
```

{% endraw %}

### Full configuration using stopped state

The example below shows a full configuration for a cover using stopped state.

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
cover:
  - platform: mqtt
    name: "MQTT Cover"
    command_topic: "home-assistant/cover/set"
    state_topic: "home-assistant/cover/state"
    position_topic: "home-assistant/cover/position"
    availability:
      - topic: "home-assistant/cover/availability"
    qos: 0
    retain: true
    payload_open: "OPEN"
    payload_close: "CLOSE"
    payload_stop: "STOP"
    state_opening: "opening"
    state_closed: "closed"
    state_stopped: "stopped"
    payload_available: "online"
    payload_not_available: "offline"
    optimistic: false
    value_template: "{{ value.x }}"
    position_template: "{{ value.y }}"
```

{% endraw %}

To test, you can use the command line tool `mosquitto_pub` shipped with `mosquitto` or the `mosquitto-clients` package to send MQTT messages. This allows you to operate your cover manually:

```bash
mosquitto_pub -h 127.0.0.1 -t home-assistant/cover/set -m "CLOSE"
```

Commit message:

Update documentation MQTT suggested_area
Add MQTT suggested_area to the documentation

source/_integrations/cover.mqtt.markdown, after:

---
title: "MQTT Cover"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate MQTT covers into Home Assistant."
ha_category:
  - Cover
ha_iot_class: Configurable
ha_release: 0.18
ha_domain: mqtt
---

The `mqtt` cover platform allows you to control an MQTT cover (such as blinds, a roller shutter or a garage door).

## Configuration

A cover entity can be in states (`open`, `opening`, `closed` or `closing`).

If a `state_topic` is configured, the entity's state will be updated only after an MQTT message is received on `state_topic` matching `state_open`, `state_opening`, `state_closed` or `state_closing`. For covers that only report 3 states (`opening`, `closing`, `stopped`), a `state_stopped` state can be configured to indicate that the device is not moving. When this payload is received on the `state_topic`, and a `position_topic` is not configured, the cover will be set to state `closed` if its state was `closing` and to state `open` otherwise. If a `position_topic` is set, the cover's position will be used to set the state to either `open` or `closed` state.

If the cover reports its position, a `position_topic` can be configured for receiving the position. If no `state_topic` is configured, the cover's state will be set to either `open` or `closed` when a position is received.

If the cover reports its tilt position, a `tilt_status_topic` can be configured for receiving the tilt position.
If position topic and state topic are both defined, the device state (`open`, `opening`, `closed` or `closing`) will be set by the state topic and the cover position will be set by the position topic.

If neither a state topic nor a position topic are defined, the cover will work in optimistic mode. In this mode, the cover will immediately change state (`open` or `closed`) after every command sent by Home Assistant. If a state topic/position topic is defined, the cover will wait for a message on `state_topic` or `position_topic`.

Optimistic mode can be forced, even if a `state_topic` / `position_topic` is defined. Try to enable it if experiencing incorrect cover operation (Google Assistant gauge may need optimistic mode as it often send request to your Home Assistant immediately after send set_cover_position in which case MQTT could be too slow).

The `mqtt` cover platform optionally supports a list of `availability` topics to receive online and offline messages (birth and LWT messages) from the MQTT cover device. During normal operation, if the MQTT cover device goes offline (i.e., publishes a matching `payload_not_available` to any `availability` topic), Home Assistant will display the cover as "unavailable". If these messages are published with the `retain` flag set, the cover will receive an instant update after subscription and Home Assistant will display correct availability state of the cover when Home Assistant starts up. If the `retain` flag is not set, Home Assistant will display the cover as "unavailable" when Home Assistant starts up.

To use your MQTT cover in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
cover:
  - platform: mqtt
    command_topic: "home-assistant/cover/set"
```

{% configuration %}
availability:
  description: "A list of MQTT topics subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability_topic`."
  required: false
  type: list
  keys:
    payload_available:
      description: The payload that represents the available state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: online
    payload_not_available:
      description: The payload that represents the unavailable state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: offline
    topic:
      description: An MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates.
      required: true
      type: string
availability_mode:
  description: When `availability` is configured, this controls the conditions needed to set the entity to `available`. Valid entries are `all`, `any`, and `latest`. If set to `all`, `payload_available` must be received on all configured availability topics before the entity is marked as online. If set to `any`, `payload_available` must be received on at least one configured availability topic before the entity is marked as online. If set to `latest`, the last `payload_available` or `payload_not_available` received on any configured availability topic controls the availability.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: latest
availability_topic:
  description: "The MQTT topic subscribed to to receive birth and LWT messages from the MQTT cover device. If an `availability` topic is not defined, the cover availability state will always be `available`. If an `availability` topic is defined, the cover availability state will be `unavailable` by default. Must not be used together with `availability`."
  required: false
  type: string
command_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic to publish commands to control the cover.
  required: false
  type: string
device:
  description: "Information about the device this cover is a part of to tie it into the [device registry](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/en/device_registry_index.html). Only works through [MQTT discovery](/docs/mqtt/discovery/) and when [`unique_id`](#unique_id) is set."
  required: false
  type: map
  keys:
    connections:
      description: 'A list of connections of the device to the outside world as a list of tuples `[connection_type, connection_identifier]`. For example the MAC address of a network interface: `"connections": ["mac", "02:5b:26:a8:dc:12"]`.'
      required: false
      type: list
    identifiers:
      description: 'A list of IDs that uniquely identify the device. For example a serial number.'
      required: false
      type: [list, string]
    manufacturer:
      description: The manufacturer of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    model:
      description: The model of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    name:
      description: The name of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    suggested_area:
      description: 'Suggest an area if the device isn’t in one yet.'
      required: false
      type: string
    sw_version:
      description: The firmware version of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    via_device:
      description: 'Identifier of a device that routes messages between this device and Home Assistant. Examples of such devices are hubs, or parent devices of a sub-device. This is used to show device topology in Home Assistant.'
      required: false
      type: string
device_class:
  description: Sets the [class of the device](/integrations/cover/), changing the device state and icon that is displayed on the frontend.
  required: false
  type: string
json_attributes_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the JSON dictionary from messages received on the `json_attributes_topic`. Usage example can be found in [MQTT sensor](/integrations/sensor.mqtt/#json-attributes-template-configuration) documentation."
  required: false
  type: template
json_attributes_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive a JSON dictionary payload and then set as sensor attributes. Usage example can be found in [MQTT sensor](/integrations/sensor.mqtt/#json-attributes-topic-configuration) documentation.
  required: false
  type: string
name:
  description: The name of the cover.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: MQTT Cover
optimistic:
  description: Flag that defines if switch works in optimistic mode.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: "`false` if state or position topic defined, else `true`."
payload_available:
  description: The payload that represents the online state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: online
payload_close:
  description: The command payload that closes the cover.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: CLOSE
payload_not_available:
  description: The payload that represents the offline state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: offline
payload_open:
  description: The command payload that opens the cover.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: OPEN
payload_stop:
  description: The command payload that stops the cover.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: STOP
position_closed:
  description: Number which represents closed position.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
position_open:
  description: Number which represents open position.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 100
position_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/topics/templating/) that can be used to extract the payload for the `position_topic` topic."
  required: false
  type: string
position_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive cover position messages.
  required: false
  type: string
qos:
  description: The maximum QoS level to be used when receiving and publishing messages.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
retain:
  description: Defines if published messages should have the retain flag set.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
set_position_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/topics/templating/) to define the position to be sent to the `set_position_topic` topic. Incoming position value is available for use in the template `{{position}}`. If no template is defined, the position (0-100) will be calculated according to `position_open` and `position_closed` values."
  required: false
  type: string
set_position_topic:
  description: "The MQTT topic to publish position commands to. You need to set position_topic as well if you want to use position topic. Use template if position topic wants different values than within range `position_closed` - `position_open`. If template is not defined and `position_closed != 100` and `position_open != 0` then proper position value is calculated from percentage position."
  required: false
  type: string
state_closed:
  description: The payload that represents the closed state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: closed
state_closing:
  description: The payload that represents the closing state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: closing
state_open:
  description: The payload that represents the open state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: open
state_opening:
  description: The payload that represents the opening state.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: opening
state_stopped:
  description: The payload that represents the stopped state (for covers that do not report `open`/`closed` state).
  required: false
  type: string
  default: stopped
state_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive cover state messages. State topic can only read (`open`, `opening`, `closed`, `closing` or `stopped`) state.
  required: false
  type: string
tilt_closed_value:
  description: The value that will be sent on a `close_cover_tilt` command.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
tilt_command_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/topics/templating/) that can be used to extract the payload for the `tilt_command_topic` topic."
  required: false
  type: string
tilt_command_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic to publish commands to control the cover tilt.
  required: false
  type: string
tilt_max:
  description: The maximum tilt value
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 100
tilt_min:
  description: The minimum tilt value.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
tilt_opened_value:
  description: The value that will be sent on an `open_cover_tilt` command.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 100
tilt_optimistic:
  description: Flag that determines if tilt works in optimistic mode.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: "`true` if `tilt_status_topic` is not defined, else `false`"
tilt_status_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/topics/templating/) that can be used to extract the payload for the `tilt_status_topic` topic."
  required: false
  type: string
tilt_status_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive tilt status update values.
  required: false
  type: string
unique_id:
  description: An ID that uniquely identifies this cover. If two covers have the same unique ID, Home Assistant will raise an exception.
  required: false
  type: string
value_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/topics/templating/) that can be used to extract the payload for the `state_topic` topic."
  required: false
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

<div class="note">

MQTT cover expects position and tilt values to be in range of 0 to 100, where 0 indicates closed position and 100 indicates fully open position.
If position `min` or `max` are set to a different range (e.g. 40 to 140), when sending command to the device the range will be adjusted to the device range (position 0 will send a value of 40 to device) and when position payload is received from the device it will be adjusted back to the 0 to 100 range (device value of 40 will report cover position 0).
`min` and `max` can also be used to reverse the direction of the device, if `min` is set to 100 and `max` is set to `0` device operation will be inverted (e.g. when setting position to 40, a value of 60 will be sent to device).

</div>

## Examples

In this section you will find some real-life examples of how to use this platform.

### Full configuration state topic without tilt

The example below shows a full configuration for a cover without tilt with state topic only.

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
cover:
  - platform: mqtt
    name: "MQTT Cover"
    command_topic: "home-assistant/cover/set"
    state_topic: "home-assistant/cover/state"
    availability:
      - topic: "home-assistant/cover/availability"
    qos: 0
    retain: true
    payload_open: "OPEN"
    payload_close: "CLOSE"
    payload_stop: "STOP"
    state_open: "open"
    state_opening: "opening"
    state_closed: "closed"
    state_closing: "closing"
    payload_available: "online"
    payload_not_available: "offline"
    optimistic: false
    value_template: "{{ value.x }}"
```

{% endraw %}

### Full configuration position topic without tilt

The example below shows a full configuration for a cover without tilt with position topic.

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
cover:
  - platform: mqtt
    name: "MQTT Cover"
    command_topic: "home-assistant/cover/set"
    position_topic: "home-assistant/cover/position"
    availability:
      - "home-assistant/cover/availability"
    set_position_topic: "home-assistant/cover/set_position"
    qos: 0
    retain: true
    payload_open: "OPEN"
    payload_close: "CLOSE"
    payload_stop: "STOP"
    position_open: 100
    position_closed: 0
    payload_available: "online"
    payload_not_available: "offline"
    optimistic: false
    value_template: "{{ value.x }}"
```

{% endraw %}

### Full configuration for position, state and tilt

The example below shows a full configuration for a cover with position, state & tilt.

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
cover:
  - platform: mqtt
    name: "MQTT Cover"
    command_topic: "home-assistant/cover/set"
    state_topic: "home-assistant/cover/state"
    position_topic: "home-assistant/cover/position"
    availability:
      - topic: "home-assistant/cover/availability"
    qos: 0
    retain: true
    payload_open: "OPEN"
    payload_close: "CLOSE"
    payload_stop: "STOP"
    state_open: "open"
    state_opening: "opening"
    state_closed: "closed"
    state_closing: "closing"
    payload_available: "online"
    payload_not_available: "offline"
    optimistic: false
    value_template: "{{ value.x }}"
    position_template: "{{ value.y }}"
    tilt_command_topic: "home-assistant/cover/tilt"
    tilt_status_topic: "home-assistant/cover/tilt-state"
    tilt_status_template: "{{ value_json["PWM"]["PWM1"] }}"
    tilt_min: 0
    tilt_max: 180
    tilt_closed_value: 70
    tilt_opened_value: 180
```

{% endraw %}

### Full configuration using stopped state

The example below shows a full configuration for a cover using stopped state.

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
cover:
  - platform: mqtt
    name: "MQTT Cover"
    command_topic: "home-assistant/cover/set"
    state_topic: "home-assistant/cover/state"
    position_topic: "home-assistant/cover/position"
    availability:
      - topic: "home-assistant/cover/availability"
    qos: 0
    retain: true
    payload_open: "OPEN"
    payload_close: "CLOSE"
    payload_stop: "STOP"
    state_opening: "opening"
    state_closed: "closed"
    state_stopped: "stopped"
    payload_available: "online"
    payload_not_available: "offline"
    optimistic: false
    value_template: "{{ value.x }}"
    position_template: "{{ value.y }}"
```

{% endraw %}

To test, you can use the command line tool `mosquitto_pub` shipped with `mosquitto` or the `mosquitto-clients` package to send MQTT messages. This allows you to operate your cover manually:

```bash
mosquitto_pub -h 127.0.0.1 -t home-assistant/cover/set -m "CLOSE"
```
