---
title: DoorBird
description: Instructions on how to integrate your DoorBird video doorbell with Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Button
  - Camera
  - Doorbell
ha_release: 0.54
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@oblogic7'
  - '@bdraco'
  - '@flacjacket'
ha_domain: doorbird
ha_zeroconf: true
ha_platforms:
  - button
  - camera
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `doorbird` implementation allows you to integrate your [DoorBird](https://www.doorbird.com/) device in Home Assistant.

There is currently support for the following device types within Home Assistant:

- [Camera](#camera) - View live and historical event based images.
- [Button](#button) - Enable control of relays and camera night vision.

## Setup

It is recommended to set up a new account on your Doorbird App for use with Home Assistant. This can be added via the Doorbird App by clicking settings (cog icon) -> Administration-> LOGIN (using your App Administration details). Under the "USER" section, choose "Add". This new user account requires specific permissions enabled (depending on what functionality you want). Permissions can be found under "Permissions". The following permissions are recommended:

- "Watch Always" (live view)
- "History" (last motion)
- "Motion" (last motion)
- "API-Operator" (this needed to be enabled as a minimum)

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Events

Events can be defined for each configured DoorBird device independently. These events will be registered on the device and can be attached to a schedule via the DoorBird app.

See [Schedules](#schedules) section below for details on how to configure schedules.

Event names will be prefixed by `doorbird_devicename`. For example, the example event `somebody_pressed_the_button` for the device 'Driveway Gate' will be seen in Home Assistant as `doorbird_driveway_gate_somebody_pressed_the_button`. This is to prevent conflicts with other events.

See [Automation Example](#automation_example) section below for details on how to use the event names in an automation.

<div class="note info">
Events will not be received in Home Assistant until a schedule is defined via the DoorBird app.
</div>

#### Clearing Registered Events
Events can be cleared from DoorBird devices by visiting a special URL.

Simply open a new browser window and navigate to `{Home Assistant URL}/api/doorbird/clear?token={DEVICE_TOKEN}`. Replace `{Home Assistant URL}` with the full path to your running instance, such as `
localhost:8123`. Replace `{DEVICE_TOKEN}` with the token specified in your configuration for the device you would like to clear.
<br><br>
Please note that clearing device events will require configuration steps above to be taken again. It could also affect other third-party applications you may use with your DoorBird device. It will not break the official mobile app in any way, so mobile push notifications will still work.
<br><br>
If DoorBird was setup using UI prompts, a token can be discovered through DoorBird App by clicking settings (cog icon) -> Administration-> LOGIN (using your App Administration details). Under the "FAVORITES" section, choose "HTTP(S) Calls". This displays all events and the associated HTTP URL. In that URL field, you will be able to see the token that was auto-generated by Home Assistant.

#### Event Data

Each event will include live image and video URLs for the Doorbird device that triggered the event. These URLs can be found on the event data and can be useful in automation actions. For example, you could use `html5_viewer_url` on a notification to be linked directly to the live view of the device that triggered the automation.

The following keys are available on `event_data`:

- `timestamp`
- `live_video_url`
- `live_image_url`
- `rtsp_live_video_url`
- `html5_viewer_url`

<div class="note">
The URLs on the event will be based on the configuration used to connect to your Doorbird device. Ability to connect from outside your network will depend on your configuration.
</div>

#### Schedules

Once events have been registered on the DoorBird device, they must be attached to a schedule using the official DoorBird app on Android or iOS. Currently, there are schedules available for doorbell, motion, relay, and RFID events (on supported Doorbird devices).

The schedules can be found by navigating to the following area of the Doorbird app (Android or IOS):

Settings (cog icon) -> Administration -> LOGIN LOGIN (using your App Administration details) -> (under "EXPERT SETTINGS") Schedule for doorbell

- `Push notification`
- `Trigger Relay ("Relay 1" or "Relay 2")`
- `HTTP(S) Calls (button, motion/movement, RFID)`

Click on the dropdown button in the top left and choose your specific "Schedule for actions" (listed above). Depending on your selection, you may have to click on the center title to see the sub-categories menu.

On the desired event, you should be able to specify blocks of time for when you would like the event to be sent to Home Assistant. If you want the event to always send, the square in the upper right can be used to populate the entire schedule. Events will be fired to Home Assistant for blocks of time that are blue.

Note: Remember to complete the schedule assignment steps above for each event type that you registered.

### Automation Example

```yaml
- alias: "Doorbird Ring"
  trigger:
    platform: event
    event_type: doorbird_driveway_gate_somebody_pressed_the_button
  action:
    service: light.turn_on
      target:
        entity_id: light.side_entry_porch
```

## Camera

The `doorbird` implementation allows you to view the live video, the last doorbell ring image, and the last motion sensor image from your [DoorBird](https://www.doorbird.com/) device in Home Assistant.


## Button

The `doorbird` button platform allows you to power connected relays and trigger the IR array in your [DoorBird](https://www.doorbird.com/) video doorbell device.
