source/_integrations/etherscan.markdown, before:

---
title: Etherscan
description: Instructions on how to integrate Etherscan.io data within Home Assistant.
logo: etherscan.png
ha_category:
  - Finance
ha_release: 0.47
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_domain: etherscan
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
---

The `Etherscan` sensor platform displays Ether and ERC-20 token balances from [Etherscan.io](https://etherscan.io).

To add the Etherscan sensor to your installation, specify an Ethereum address to watch in the `configuration.yaml` file. You can also optionally provide a token name to retrieve and ERC-20 token balance. If no token is provided then the balance retrieved will be in ETH. You can also optionally provide the token contract address in case the token name is not found.

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sensor:
  - platform: etherscan
    address: "0xfB6916095ca1df60bB79Ce92cE3Ea74c37c5d359"
  - platform: etherscan
    address: "0xfB6916095ca1df60bB79Ce92cE3Ea74c37c5d359"
    token: OMG
  - platform: etherscan
    address: "0xfB6916095ca1df60bB79Ce92cE3Ea74c37c5d359"
    token_address: "0xef68e7c694f40c8202821edf525de3782458639f"
    token: LRC
```

{% configuration %}
address:
  description: Ethereum wallet address to watch.
  required: true
  type: string
name:
  description: The name of the sensor used in the frontend.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: ETH Balance
token:
  description: The ERC20 token symbol. i.e., OMG.
  required: false
  type: string
token_address:
  description: The ERC20 token contract address.
  required: false
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

Commit message:

Add API requirement to Etherscan docs

source/_integrations/etherscan.markdown, after:

---
title: Etherscan
description: Instructions on how to integrate Etherscan.io data within Home Assistant.
logo: etherscan.png
ha_category:
  - Finance
ha_release: 0.47
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_domain: etherscan
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
---

The `Etherscan` sensor platform displays Ether and ERC-20 token balances from [Etherscan.io](https://etherscan.io).

##Setup

A free Etherscan.io API key is required. To create an API key, you will need to register an account and follow the steps on the [Etherscan.io API introduction page](https://etherscan.io/apis).

##Configuration

To add the Etherscan sensor to your installation, specify an Ethereum address to watch in the `configuration.yaml` file. You can also optionally provide a token name to retrieve and ERC-20 token balance. If no token is provided then the balance retrieved will be in ETH. You can also optionally provide the token contract address in case the token name is not found.

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sensor:
  - platform: etherscan
    address: "0xfB6916095ca1df60bB79Ce92cE3Ea74c37c5d359"
    api_key: G1I9XSQJMJLDLG72FJ7MKKWDP24BVYLDQ1
  - platform: etherscan
    address: "0xfB6916095ca1df60bB79Ce92cE3Ea74c37c5d359"
    token: OMG
    api_key: G1I9XSQJMJLDLG72FJ7MKKWDP24BVYLDQ1
  - platform: etherscan
    address: "0xfB6916095ca1df60bB79Ce92cE3Ea74c37c5d359"
    token_address: "0xef68e7c694f40c8202821edf525de3782458639f"
    token: LRC
    api_key: G1I9XSQJMJLDLG72FJ7MKKWDP24BVYLDQ1
```

{% configuration %}
address:
  description: Ethereum wallet address to watch.
  required: true
  type: string
api_key:
  description: Etherscan.io API key
  required: true
  type: string
name:
  description: The name of the sensor used in the frontend.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: ETH Balance
token:
  description: The ERC20 token symbol. i.e., OMG.
  required: false
  type: string
token_address:
  description: The ERC20 token contract address.
  required: false
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}
