source/_integrations/fan.template.markdown, before:

---
title: "Template Fan"
description: "Instructions how to setup the Template fans within Home Assistant."
ha_category:
  - Fan
ha_release: 0.69
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_quality_scale: internal
ha_domain: template
---

The `template` platform creates fans that combine integrations and provides the
ability to run scripts or invoke services for each of the `turn_on`, `turn_off`, `set_percentage`,
`set_preset_mode`, `set_oscillating`, and `set_direction` commands of a fan.

To enable Template Fans in your installation, add the following to your
`configuration.yaml` file:

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
fan:
  - platform: template
    fans:
      bedroom_fan:
        friendly_name: "Bedroom fan"
        value_template: "{{ states('input_boolean.state') }}"
        percentage_template: "{{ states('input_number.percentage') }}"
        preset_mode_template: "{{ states('input_select.preset_mode') }}"
        oscillating_template: "{{ states('input_select.osc') }}"
        direction_template: "{{ states('input_select.direction') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: script.fan_on
        turn_off:
          service: script.fan_off
        set_percentage:
          service: script.fans_set_speed
          data:
            percentage: "{{ percentage }}"
        set_preset_mode:
          service: script.fans_set_preset_mode
          data:
            preset_mode: "{{ preset_mode }}"
        set_oscillating:
          service: script.fan_oscillating
          data:
            oscillating: "{{ oscillating }}"
        set_direction:
          service: script.fan_direction
          data:
            direction: "{{ direction }}"
        speed_count: 6
        preset_modes:
          - 'auto'
          - 'smart'
          - 'woosh'
```

{% endraw %}

{% configuration %}
  fans:
    description: List of your fans.
    required: true
    type: map
    keys:
      friendly_name:
        description: Name to use in the frontend.
        required: false
        type: string
      unique_id:
        description: An ID that uniquely identifies this fan. Set this to a unique value to allow customization through the UI.
        required: false
        type: string
      value_template:
        description: "Defines a template to get the state of the fan. Valid values: `on`, `off`"
        required: true
        type: template
      percentage_template:
        description: Defines a template to get the speed percentage of the fan.
        required: false
        type: template
      preset_mode_template:
        description: Defines a template to get the preset mode of the fan.
        required: false
        type: template
      oscillating_template:
        description: "Defines a template to get the osc state of the fan. Valid values: `true`, `false`"
        required: false
        type: template
      direction_template:
        description: "Defines a template to get the direction of the fan. Valid values: `forward`, `reverse`"
        required: false
        type: template
      availability_template:
        description: Defines a template to get the `available` state of the component. If the template returns `true`, the device is `available`. If the template returns any other value, the device will be `unavailable`. If `availability_template` is not configured, the component will always be `available`.
        required: false
        type: template
        default: true
      turn_on:
        description: Defines an action to run when the fan is turned on.
        required: true
        type: action
      turn_off:
        description: Defines an action to run when the fan is turned off.
        required: true
        type: action
      set_percentage:
        description: Defines an action to run when the fan is given a speed percentage command.
        required: false
        type: action
      set_oscillating:
        description: Defines an action to run when the fan is given an osc state command.
        required: false
        type: action
      set_direction:
        description: Defines an action to run when the fan is given a direction command.
        required: false
        type: action
      preset_modes:
        description: List of preset modes the fan is capable of.
        required: false
        type: [string, list]
        default: []
      speed_count:
        description: The number of speeds the fan supports. Used to calculate the percentage step for the `fan.increase_speed` and `fan.decrease_speed` services.
        required: false
        type: integer
        default: 100
{% endconfiguration %}

Commit message:

Update template fan to provide guidance on how to convert from speeds (#16963)

source/_integrations/fan.template.markdown, after:

---
title: "Template Fan"
description: "Instructions how to setup the Template fans within Home Assistant."
ha_category:
  - Fan
ha_release: 0.69
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_quality_scale: internal
ha_domain: template
---

The `template` platform creates fans that combine integrations and provides the
ability to run scripts or invoke services for each of the `turn_on`, `turn_off`, `set_percentage`,
`set_preset_mode`, `set_oscillating`, and `set_direction` commands of a fan.

To enable Template Fans in your installation, add the following to your
`configuration.yaml` file:

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
fan:
  - platform: template
    fans:
      bedroom_fan:
        friendly_name: "Bedroom fan"
        value_template: "{{ states('input_boolean.state') }}"
        percentage_template: "{{ states('input_number.percentage') }}"
        preset_mode_template: "{{ states('input_select.preset_mode') }}"
        oscillating_template: "{{ states('input_select.osc') }}"
        direction_template: "{{ states('input_select.direction') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: script.fan_on
        turn_off:
          service: script.fan_off
        set_percentage:
          service: script.fans_set_speed
          data:
            percentage: "{{ percentage }}"
        set_preset_mode:
          service: script.fans_set_preset_mode
          data:
            preset_mode: "{{ preset_mode }}"
        set_oscillating:
          service: script.fan_oscillating
          data:
            oscillating: "{{ oscillating }}"
        set_direction:
          service: script.fan_direction
          data:
            direction: "{{ direction }}"
        speed_count: 6
        preset_modes:
          - 'auto'
          - 'smart'
          - 'woosh'
```

{% endraw %}

{% configuration %}
  fans:
    description: List of your fans.
    required: true
    type: map
    keys:
      friendly_name:
        description: Name to use in the frontend.
        required: false
        type: string
      unique_id:
        description: An ID that uniquely identifies this fan. Set this to a unique value to allow customization through the UI.
        required: false
        type: string
      value_template:
        description: "Defines a template to get the state of the fan. Valid values: `on`, `off`"
        required: true
        type: template
      percentage_template:
        description: Defines a template to get the speed percentage of the fan.
        required: false
        type: template
      preset_mode_template:
        description: Defines a template to get the preset mode of the fan.
        required: false
        type: template
      oscillating_template:
        description: "Defines a template to get the osc state of the fan. Valid values: `true`, `false`"
        required: false
        type: template
      direction_template:
        description: "Defines a template to get the direction of the fan. Valid values: `forward`, `reverse`"
        required: false
        type: template
      availability_template:
        description: Defines a template to get the `available` state of the component. If the template returns `true`, the device is `available`. If the template returns any other value, the device will be `unavailable`. If `availability_template` is not configured, the component will always be `available`.
        required: false
        type: template
        default: true
      turn_on:
        description: Defines an action to run when the fan is turned on.
        required: true
        type: action
      turn_off:
        description: Defines an action to run when the fan is turned off.
        required: true
        type: action
      set_percentage:
        description: Defines an action to run when the fan is given a speed percentage command.
        required: false
        type: action
      set_oscillating:
        description: Defines an action to run when the fan is given an osc state command.
        required: false
        type: action
      set_direction:
        description: Defines an action to run when the fan is given a direction command.
        required: false
        type: action
      preset_modes:
        description: List of preset modes the fan is capable of. This is an arbitrary list of strings and must not contain any speeds.
        required: false
        type: [string, list]
        default: []
      speed_count:
        description: The number of speeds the fan supports. Used to calculate the percentage step for the `fan.increase_speed` and `fan.decrease_speed` services.
        required: false
        type: integer
        default: 100
{% endconfiguration %}

## Converting from speeds to percentage

When converting a fan with 3 speeds from the old fan entity model, the following percentages can be used:
 
0 - `off`
33 - `low`
66 - `medium`
100 - `high`
