---
title: Global Caché GC-100
description: Instructions on how to integrate gc100 with Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Binary Sensor
  - Hub
  - Switch
ha_release: 0.57
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_domain: gc100
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - switch
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The Global Caché [GC-100](https://www.globalcache.com/products/gc-100/) can be integrated into Home Assistant. GC-100 is a TCP-controllable
hardware device which has an array of relays, RS232 serial ports, and flexible ports which can be programmed to be either digital inputs or IR blaster outputs. There are a variety of submodels of the GC-100 which have different amounts of each I/O type.

There is currently support for the following device types within Home Assistant:

- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Binary Sensor](#binary-sensor)
- [Switch](#switch)

Currently, only relays and ports configured to be digital inputs are supported in Home Assistant. For IR support, please use the [iTach remote platform](/integrations/itach), but note that it will likely not function concurrently on the same GC100 due to limitations in the TCP socket server implementation used by Global Caché.

## Configuration

To enable this device, add the following lines to your `configuration.yaml`:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
gc100:
  host: IP_ADDRESS
```

{% configuration %}
host:
  description: The hostname or IP address of your GC100 device.
  required: true
  type: string
port:
  description: The port on which the GC100 is listening.
  required: false
  default: 4998
  type: integer
{% endconfiguration %}

## Binary Sensor

To enable this sensor, you first have to set up [gc100](#configuration), and add the following lines to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
binary_sensor:
  - platform: gc100
    ports:
      - '3:1': Doorchime
      - '3:2': Garage Obstruction
```

{% configuration %}
ports:
  description: >
    A list of module-address to name mappings in the format `'x:y': name`,
    where x is module #, y is address.
  required: true
  type: list
{% endconfiguration %}

## Switch

This allows you to control and monitor the relay state on your GC100.

To enable this switch, you first have to set up [gc100](#configuration), and add the following lines to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
switch:
  - platform: gc100
    ports:
      - '4:1': Siren
      - '4:2': Sprinkler
```

{% configuration %}
ports:
  description: "A list of module-address to name mappings in the format 'x:y': name, where x is module #, y is address."
  required: true
  type: list
{% endconfiguration %}
