source/_integrations/hive.markdown, before:

---
title: Hive
description: Instructions on how to integrate Hive devices with Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Hub
  - Binary Sensor
  - Climate
  - Light
  - Sensor
  - Switch
  - Water Heater
ha_release: 0.59
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@Rendili'
  - '@KJonline'
ha_domain: hive
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - climate
  - light
  - sensor
  - switch
  - water_heater
---

The `hive` integration is the main integration to set up and integrate all supported Hive devices. Once configured with the minimum required details it will detect and add all Hive devices into Home Assistant, including support for multi-zone heating.

This integration uses the  Hive website [https://my.hivehome.com](https://my.hivehome.com) credentials, you will need to use the same username and password you use on the Hive website to configure this Hive integration in Home Assistant.

To add your Hive devices into your Home Assistant installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
hive:
  username: YOUR_USERNAME
  password: YOUR_PASSWORD
```

{% configuration %}
username:
  description: Your username from [https://my.hivehome.com](https://my.hivehome.com).
  required: true
  type: string
password:
  description: Your password from [https://my.hivehome.com](https://my.hivehome.com).
  required: true
  type: string
scan_interval:
  description: The time in minutes between Hive API calls
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 2
{% endconfiguration %}

## Services

### Service `hive.boost_heating`

You can use the service `hive.boost_heating` to set your heating to boost for a period of time at a certain target temperature". Individual TRVs can also be boosted in the same way, using this service.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description                                                            |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `entity_id`            | no       | String, Name of entity e.g., `climate.heating`                         |
| `time_period`          | no       | Time Period, Period of time the boost should last for e.g., `01:30:00` |
| `temperature`          | yes      | String, The required target temperature e.g., `20.5`                   |

Examples:

```yaml
# Example script to boost heating, boost period and target temperature specified.
script:
  boost_heating:
    sequence:
      - service: hive.boost_heating
        target:
          entity_id: "climate.heating"
        data:
          time_period: "01:30:00"
          temperature: "20.5"
```

### Service `hive.boost_hot_water`

You can use the service `hive.boost_hot_water` to set your hot water to boost for a period of time.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description                                                             |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `entity_id`            | no       | String, Name of entity e.g., `water_heater.hot_water`                   |
| `time_period`          | yes      | Time Period, Period of time the boost should last for e.g., `01:30:00`. |
| `on_off`               | no       | String, The mode to set the boost to on or off e.g., `on`               |

Examples:

```yaml
# Example script to boost hot water, boost period specified
script:
  boost_hot_water:
    sequence:
      - service: "hive.boost_hot_water"
        target:
          entity_id: "water_heater.hot_water"
        data:
          time_period: "01:30:00"
          on_off: "on"
```

## Platforms

### Binary Sensor

The `hive` binary sensor integration integrates your Hive sensors into Home Assistant.

The platform supports the following Hive devices and sensors:

- Devices
  - Hive Window or Door Sensor
  - Hive Motion Sensor
- Sensors
  - Hive Hub Online Status
  - Hive Hub 360 Glass Break
  - Hive Hub 360 Dog Bark
  - Hive Hub 360 Smoke CO2

### Climate

The `hive` climate platform integrates your Hive thermostat and Hive radiator valves into Home Assistant, enabling control of setting the **mode** and setting the **target temperature**.

A short boost for Hive Heating can be set by using the **Boost** preset, this will turn on the boost feature for 30 minutes at 0.5 degrees higher than the current temperature.

The platform supports the following Hive products:

- Hive Active Heating
- Hive Multi-zone
- Hive Radiator Valve

### Light

The `hive` light platform integrates your Hive lights into Home Assistant, enabling control of various settings, depending on the model light.

The platform supports the following Hive products:

- Hive Active Light Dimmable
- Hive Active Light Cool to Warm White
- Hive Active Light Color Changing

### Sensor

The `hive` sensor integration exposes Hive data as a sensor.

The platform exposes the following sensors:

- Battery level for supported products
  
### Switch

The `hive` switch platform integrates your Hive plugs into Home Assistant, enabling control of your devices.

The platform supports the following Hive products:

- Hive Active Plug

### Water Heater

The `hive` water heater platform integrates your Hive hot water into Home Assistant, enabling control of setting the **mode**.

The platform supports the following Hive products:

- Hot Water Control

Commit message:

Hive UI Docs update (#16568)
Co-authored-by: Franck Nijhof <frenck@frenck.nl>

source/_integrations/hive.markdown, after:

---
title: Hive
description: Instructions on how to integrate Hive devices with Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Hub
  - Binary Sensor
  - Climate
  - Light
  - Sensor
  - Switch
  - Water Heater
ha_release: 0.59
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@Rendili'
  - '@KJonline'
ha_domain: hive
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - climate
  - light
  - sensor
  - switch
  - water_heater
---

The Hive integration for Home Assistant allows you to interact with supported devices and services offered by
[hivehome.com](https://www.hivehome.com)

This Hive integration uses the same username and password you use on the [Hive website](https://sso.hivehome.com) to configure it within Home Assistant, 2FA authentication is also supported. Once configured Home Assistant will detect and add all Hive devices, including support for multi-zone heating.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}


## Options

Menu: *Configuration* > *Integrations* > *Select your new integration* > *Press the options button*

- **Scan Interval**: Update the scan interval allowing the integration to poll for data more frequently (Cannot be set lower than 30 seconds).
  
## Services

### Service `hive.boost_heating`

You can use the service `hive.boost_heating` to set your heating to boost for a period of time at a certain target temperature". Individual TRVs can also be boosted in the same way, using this service.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description                                                            |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `entity_id`            | no       | String, Name of entity e.g., `climate.heating`                         |
| `time_period`          | no       | Time Period, Period of time the boost should last for e.g., `01:30:00` |
| `temperature`          | yes      | String, The required target temperature e.g., `20.5`                   |

Examples:

```yaml
# Example script to boost heating, boost period and target temperature specified.
script:
  boost_heating:
    sequence:
      - service: hive.boost_heating
        target:
          entity_id: "climate.heating"
        data:
          time_period: "01:30:00"
          temperature: "20.5"
```

### Service `hive.boost_hot_water`

You can use the service `hive.boost_hot_water` to set your hot water to boost for a period of time.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description                                                             |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `entity_id`            | no       | String, Name of entity e.g., `water_heater.hot_water`                   |
| `time_period`          | yes      | Time Period, Period of time the boost should last for e.g., `01:30:00`. |
| `on_off`               | no       | String, The mode to set the boost to on or off e.g., `on`               |

Examples:

```yaml
# Example script to boost hot water, boost period specified
script:
  boost_hot_water:
    sequence:
      - service: "hive.boost_hot_water"
        target:
          entity_id: "water_heater.hot_water"
        data:
          time_period: "01:30:00"
          on_off: "on"
```

## Platforms

### Binary Sensor

The `hive` binary sensor integration integrates your Hive sensors into Home Assistant.

The platform supports the following Hive devices and sensors:

- Devices
  - Hive Window or Door Sensor
  - Hive Motion Sensor
- Sensors
  - Hive Hub Online Status
  - Hive Hub 360 Glass Break
  - Hive Hub 360 Dog Bark
  - Hive Hub 360 Smoke CO2

### Climate

The `hive` climate platform integrates your Hive thermostat and Hive radiator valves into Home Assistant, enabling control of setting the **mode** and setting the **target temperature**.

A short boost for Hive Heating can be set by using the **Boost** preset, this will turn on the boost feature for 30 minutes at 0.5 degrees higher than the current temperature.

The platform supports the following Hive products:

- Hive Active Heating
- Hive Multi-zone
- Hive Radiator Valve

### Light

The `hive` light platform integrates your Hive lights into Home Assistant, enabling control of various settings, depending on the model light.

The platform supports the following Hive products:

- Hive Active Light Dimmable
- Hive Active Light Cool to Warm White
- Hive Active Light Color Changing

### Sensor

The `hive` sensor integration exposes Hive data as a sensor.

The platform exposes the following sensors:

- Battery level for supported products
  
### Switch

The `hive` switch platform integrates your Hive plugs into Home Assistant, enabling control of your devices.

The platform supports the following Hive products:

- Hive Active Plug

### Water Heater

The `hive` water heater platform integrates your Hive hot water into Home Assistant, enabling control of setting the **mode**.

The platform supports the following Hive products:

- Hot Water Control
