source/_integrations/hyperion.markdown, before:

---
title: Hyperion
description: Instructions on how to integrate Hyperion into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Light
ha_release: 0.7.6
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_domain: hyperion
ha_codeowners:
  - '@dermotduffy'
ha_quality_scale: platinum
ha_config_flow: true
ha_ssdp: true
ha_platforms:
  - light
  - switch
---

The Hyperion integration allows you to integrate your
[Hyperion](https://docs.hyperion-project.org/) into Home Assistant. Hyperion is
an open source Ambilight implementation which runs on many platforms.

**NOTE**: [Hyperion-NG](https://github.com/hyperion-project/hyperion.ng) is
supported, the original [discontinued Hyperion](https://github.com/hyperion-project/hyperion) is not supported by
this integration.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Extra configuration of the integration

All configuration options are offered from the frontend. Choose `Options` under the
relevant entry on the `Integrations` page.

Options supported:
- **priority**: The priority for color and effects, make sure this is lower then the streaming sources priority in hyperion itself (typically lower than 200 is appropriate).

## Hyperion Instances

This integration supports multiple Hyperion instances running on a single Hyperion
server. As instances are added/removed on the Hyperion UI, they will automatically be
added/removed from Home Assistant.

## Effects

The effect list is dynamically pulled from the Hyperion server. The following
extra effects will be available:

- BOBLIGHTSERVER: Use a Boblight-Server configured in Hyperion.
- GRABBER: Use a 'Platform Capture' grabber that is configured in Hyperion.
- V4L: Use a 'USB Capture' V4L device that is configured in Hyperion.
- Solid: Use a solid color only.

## Advanced Entities

The Hyperion integration comes with a series of disabled-by-default entities for
advanced usecases. These entities expose 'raw' underlying Hyperion API components for
improved extensibility and interoperability which are particularly useful in cases where
there are multiple Hyperion server clients (of which Home Assistant is one).

Provided advanced entities:

- `light.[instance]_priority`: A "priority" light that acts exclusively on a given
  Hyperion priority. Only color/effects (and not components) are available in this light.
  Turning this light off will set a black color at this given priority rather than
  turning the light off in absolute terms.
- `switch.[instance]_component_[component]`: A switch to turn on/off the relevant
  underlying Hyperion component as shown on the Hyperion server `Remote Control` page
  under `Component Control`. This allows fine grained control over sources (e.g. `USB Capture`) and
  Hyperion functionality (e.g. `Blackbar Detection`).

These entities may be enabled by visiting the `Integrations` page, choosing the relevant
entity and toggling `Enable entity`, followed by `Update`.

## Examples

To start Hyperion with an effect, use the following automation:

```yaml
automation:
- id: one
  alias: "Turn Hyperion effect on when light goes on"
  trigger:
    - platform: state
      entity_id: light.hyperion
      to: "on"
  action:
    - service: light.turn_on
      target:
        entity_id: light.hyperion
      data:
        effect: "Full color mood blobs"
```

To have the lights playing an effect when pausing, idle or turn off a media player like Plex you can use this example:

```yaml
- alias: "Set hyperion effect after playback"
  trigger:
    - platform: state
      entity_id: media_player.plex
      to: "off"
    - platform: state
      entity_id: media_player.plex.plex
      to: "paused"
    - platform: state
      entity_id: media_player.plex.plex
      to: "idle"
  action:
    - service: light.turn_on
      target:
        entity_id: light.hyperion
      data:
        effect: "Full color mood blobs"
```

To capture the screen when playing something on a media_player you can use this example:

```yaml
- alias: "Set hyperion when playback starts"
  trigger:
    - platform: state
      entity_id: media_player.plex
      to: "playing"
  action:
    - service: light.turn_on
      target:
        entity_id: light.hyperion
      data:
        effect: V4L
```

Commit message:

Add documentation for Hyperion effect hide option (#16344)

source/_integrations/hyperion.markdown, after:

---
title: Hyperion
description: Instructions on how to integrate Hyperion into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Light
ha_release: 0.7.6
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_domain: hyperion
ha_codeowners:
  - '@dermotduffy'
ha_quality_scale: platinum
ha_config_flow: true
ha_ssdp: true
ha_platforms:
  - light
  - switch
---

The Hyperion integration allows you to integrate your
[Hyperion](https://docs.hyperion-project.org/) into Home Assistant. Hyperion is
an open source Ambilight implementation which runs on many platforms.

**NOTE**: [Hyperion-NG](https://github.com/hyperion-project/hyperion.ng) is
supported, the original [discontinued Hyperion](https://github.com/hyperion-project/hyperion) is not supported by
this integration.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Extra configuration of the integration

All configuration options are offered from the frontend. Choose `Options` under the
relevant entry on the `Integrations` page.

Options supported:
- **Priority**: The priority for color and effects, make sure this is lower then the streaming sources priority in hyperion itself (typically lower than 200 is appropriate).
- **Effects to hide**: An optional selection of effects to hide from the light effects
  list. New effects added to the Hyperion server will be shown by default.
## Hyperion Instances

This integration supports multiple Hyperion instances running on a single Hyperion
server. As instances are added/removed on the Hyperion UI, they will automatically be
added/removed from Home Assistant.

## Effects

The effect list is dynamically pulled from the Hyperion server. The following
extra effects will be available:

- BOBLIGHTSERVER: Use a Boblight-Server configured in Hyperion.
- GRABBER: Use a 'Platform Capture' grabber that is configured in Hyperion.
- V4L: Use a 'USB Capture' V4L device that is configured in Hyperion.
- Solid: Use a solid color only.

## Advanced Entities

The Hyperion integration comes with a series of disabled-by-default entities for
advanced usecases. These entities expose 'raw' underlying Hyperion API components for
improved extensibility and interoperability which are particularly useful in cases where
there are multiple Hyperion server clients (of which Home Assistant is one).

Provided advanced entities:

- `light.[instance]_priority`: A "priority" light that acts exclusively on a given
  Hyperion priority. Only color/effects (and not components) are available in this light.
  Turning this light off will set a black color at this given priority rather than
  turning the light off in absolute terms.
- `switch.[instance]_component_[component]`: A switch to turn on/off the relevant
  underlying Hyperion component as shown on the Hyperion server `Remote Control` page
  under `Component Control`. This allows fine grained control over sources (e.g. `USB Capture`) and
  Hyperion functionality (e.g. `Blackbar Detection`).

These entities may be enabled by visiting the `Integrations` page, choosing the relevant
entity and toggling `Enable entity`, followed by `Update`.

## Examples

To start Hyperion with an effect, use the following automation:

```yaml
automation:
- id: one
  alias: "Turn Hyperion effect on when light goes on"
  trigger:
    - platform: state
      entity_id: light.hyperion
      to: "on"
  action:
    - service: light.turn_on
      target:
        entity_id: light.hyperion
      data:
        effect: "Full color mood blobs"
```

To have the lights playing an effect when pausing, idle or turn off a media player like Plex you can use this example:

```yaml
- alias: "Set hyperion effect after playback"
  trigger:
    - platform: state
      entity_id: media_player.plex
      to: "off"
    - platform: state
      entity_id: media_player.plex.plex
      to: "paused"
    - platform: state
      entity_id: media_player.plex.plex
      to: "idle"
  action:
    - service: light.turn_on
      target:
        entity_id: light.hyperion
      data:
        effect: "Full color mood blobs"
```

To capture the screen when playing something on a media_player you can use this example:

```yaml
- alias: "Set hyperion when playback starts"
  trigger:
    - platform: state
      entity_id: media_player.plex
      to: "playing"
  action:
    - service: light.turn_on
      target:
        entity_id: light.hyperion
      data:
        effect: V4L
```
