source/_integrations/ifttt.markdown, before:

---
title: IFTTT
description: Instructions on how to setup IFTTT within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Automation
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_release: 0.8
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: ifttt
ha_platforms:
  - alarm_control_panel
ha_integration_type: integration
---

[IFTTT](https://ifttt.com) is a web service that allows users to create chains of simple conditional statements, so-called "Applets". With the IFTTT component, you can trigger applets through the **"Webhooks"** service (which was previously the **"Maker"** channel).

## Prerequisites

To be able to receive events from IFTTT, your Home Assistant instance needs to be accessible from the web and you need to have the external URL [configured](/docs/configuration/basic), or use your Nabu Casa account's webhook URL from the IFTTT integration.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Receiving events from IFTTT

Events coming in from IFTTT will be available as events in Home Assistant and are fired as `ifttt_webhook_received`. The data specified in the IFTTT recipe Body section will be available as the event data. You can use this event to trigger automations. Use POST as method.

For example, set the body of the IFTTT webhook to:

```json
{ "action": "call_service", "service": "light.turn_on", "entity_id": "light.living_room" }
```

You then need to consume that incoming information with the following automation:

{% raw %}

```yaml
automation:
- id: this_is_the_automation_id
  alias: "The optional automation alias"
  trigger:
  - platform: event
    event_type: ifttt_webhook_received
    event_data:
      action: call_service  # the same action 'name' you used in the Body section of the IFTTT recipe
  condition: []
  action:
  - service: '{{ trigger.event.data.service }}'
    target:
      entity_id: '{{ trigger.event.data.entity_id }}'
    
```

{% endraw %}

## Sending events to IFTTT

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
ifttt:
  key: YOUR_API_KEY
```

`key` is your API key which can be obtained by viewing the **Settings** of the [Webhooks applet](https://ifttt.com/services/maker_webhooks/settings). It's the last part of the URL (e.g., https://maker.ifttt.com/use/MYAPIKEY) you will find under **My Applets** > **Webhooks** > **Settings**.
![Property screen of the Maker Channel.](/images/integrations/ifttt/finding_key.png)

Once you have added your key to your `configuration.yaml` file, restart your Home Assistant instance. This will load up the IFTTT integration and make a service available to trigger events in IFTTT.

<div class='note'>
After restarting the server, be sure to watch the console for any logging errors that show up in red, white or yellow.
</div>

### Multiple IFTTT keys

If you have multiple IFTTT users you can specify multiple IFTTT keys with:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
ifttt:
  key: 
    YOUR_KEY_NAME1: YOUR_API_KEY1
    YOUR_KEY_NAME2: YOUR_API_KEY2
```

### Testing your trigger

You can use **Developer Tools** to test your [Webhooks](https://ifttt.com/maker_webhooks) trigger. To do this, open the Home Assistant sidebar, click on Developer Tools, and then the **Services** tab. Fill in the following values:

Field | Value
----- | -----
domain | `ifttt`
service | `trigger`
Service Data | `{"event": "EventName", "value1": "Hello World"}`

When your screen looks like this, click the 'call service' button.
![Testing service.](/images/integrations/ifttt/testing_service.png)

By default, the trigger is sent to all the API keys from `configuration.yaml`. If you
want to send the trigger to a specific key use the `target` field:

Field | Value
----- | -----
domain | `ifttt`
service | `trigger`
Service Data | `{"event": "EventName", "value1": "Hello World", "target": "YOUR_KEY_NAME1"}`

The `target` field can contain a single key name or a list of key names.

### Setting up an applet

Press the *Create* button and *Add* on **If This**. Search for *Webhooks*.
![Create applet.](/images/integrations/ifttt/create_applet.png)

Choose *Webhooks* service.
![Choose "Webhooks" service.](/images/integrations/ifttt/setup_service.png)

Select *Receive a web request*.
![Receive a web request.](/images/integrations/ifttt/choose_webhook_trigger.png)

You need to setup a unique trigger for each event you sent to IFTTT.
![You need to setup a unique trigger for each event you sent to IFTTT.](/images/integrations/ifttt/setup_trigger.png)

Add the *Then That* action. The below example sends a notification to the IFTTT mobile app and adds `value1` to the message:
![Example notification "then that" action.](/images/integrations/ifttt/setup_then_that.png)

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml Automation entry
automation:
  alias: "Startup Notification"
  trigger:
    platform: homeassistant
    event: start
  action:
    service: ifttt.trigger
    data: {"event":"TestHA_Trigger", "value1":"Hello World!"}
```

{% endraw %}

IFTTT can also be used in scripts and with templates. Here is the above automation broken into an automation and script using variables and templates.

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml Automation entry
automation:
  alias: "Startup Notification"
  trigger:
    platform: homeassistant
    event: start
  action:
    service: script.ifttt_notify
    data:
      value1: "HA Status:"
      value2: "{{ trigger.event.data.entity_id.split('_')[1] }} is "
      value3: "{{ trigger.event.data.to_state.state }}"
```

{% endraw %}

{% raw %}

```yaml
#Example Script to send TestHA_Trigger to IFTTT but with some other data (homeassistant UP).
ifttt_notify:
  sequence:
    - service: ifttt.trigger
      data: {"event":"TestHA_Trigger", "value1":"{{ value1 }}", "value2":"{{ value2 }}", "value3":"{{ value3 }}"}
```

{% endraw %}

Commit message:

Converted service data parameters to {% configuration_basic %}.

source/_integrations/ifttt.markdown, after:

---
title: IFTTT
description: Instructions on how to setup IFTTT within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Automation
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_release: 0.8
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: ifttt
ha_platforms:
  - alarm_control_panel
ha_integration_type: integration
---

[IFTTT](https://ifttt.com) is a web service that allows users to create chains of simple conditional statements, so-called "Applets". With the IFTTT component, you can trigger applets through the **"Webhooks"** service (which was previously the **"Maker"** channel).

## Prerequisites

To be able to receive events from IFTTT, your Home Assistant instance needs to be accessible from the web and you need to have the external URL [configured](/docs/configuration/basic), or use your Nabu Casa account's webhook URL from the IFTTT integration.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Receiving events from IFTTT

Events coming in from IFTTT will be available as events in Home Assistant and are fired as `ifttt_webhook_received`. The data specified in the IFTTT recipe Body section will be available as the event data. You can use this event to trigger automations. Use POST as method.

For example, set the body of the IFTTT webhook to:

```json
{ "action": "call_service", "service": "light.turn_on", "entity_id": "light.living_room" }
```

You then need to consume that incoming information with the following automation:

{% raw %}

```yaml
automation:
- id: this_is_the_automation_id
  alias: "The optional automation alias"
  trigger:
  - platform: event
    event_type: ifttt_webhook_received
    event_data:
      action: call_service  # the same action 'name' you used in the Body section of the IFTTT recipe
  condition: []
  action:
  - service: '{{ trigger.event.data.service }}'
    target:
      entity_id: '{{ trigger.event.data.entity_id }}'
    
```

{% endraw %}

## Sending events to IFTTT

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
ifttt:
  key: YOUR_API_KEY
```

`key` is your API key which can be obtained by viewing the **Settings** of the [Webhooks applet](https://ifttt.com/services/maker_webhooks/settings). It's the last part of the URL (e.g., https://maker.ifttt.com/use/MYAPIKEY) you will find under **My Applets** > **Webhooks** > **Settings**.
![Property screen of the Maker Channel.](/images/integrations/ifttt/finding_key.png)

Once you have added your key to your `configuration.yaml` file, restart your Home Assistant instance. This will load up the IFTTT integration and make a service available to trigger events in IFTTT.

<div class='note'>
After restarting the server, be sure to watch the console for any logging errors that show up in red, white or yellow.
</div>

### Multiple IFTTT keys

If you have multiple IFTTT users you can specify multiple IFTTT keys with:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
ifttt:
  key: 
    YOUR_KEY_NAME1: YOUR_API_KEY1
    YOUR_KEY_NAME2: YOUR_API_KEY2
```

### Testing your trigger

You can use **Developer Tools** to test your [Webhooks](https://ifttt.com/maker_webhooks) trigger. To do this, open the Home Assistant sidebar, click on **Developer Tools** -> **Services** tab. Select `IFTTT: Trigger` as the service and fill in the following values:

{% configuration_basic %}
event:
  description: The name of the event to send.
  required: true
  type: string
value1:
  description: Generic field to send data via the event.
  required: false
  type: string
value2:
  description: Generic field to send data via the event.
  required: false
  type: string
value3:
  description: Generic field to send data via the event.
  required: false
  type: string
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

When your screen looks like this, click the 'call service' button.
![Testing service.](/images/integrations/ifttt/testing_service.png)

By default, the trigger is sent to all the API keys from `configuration.yaml`. If you
want to send the trigger to a specific key use the `target` field:

Field | Value
----- | -----
domain | `ifttt`
service | `trigger`
Service Data | `{"event": "EventName", "value1": "Hello World", "target": "YOUR_KEY_NAME1"}`

The `target` field can contain a single key name or a list of key names.

### Setting up an applet

Press the *Create* button and *Add* on **If This**. Search for *Webhooks*.
![Create applet.](/images/integrations/ifttt/create_applet.png)

Choose *Webhooks* service.
![Choose "Webhooks" service.](/images/integrations/ifttt/setup_service.png)

Select *Receive a web request*.
![Receive a web request.](/images/integrations/ifttt/choose_webhook_trigger.png)

You need to setup a unique trigger for each event you sent to IFTTT.
![You need to setup a unique trigger for each event you sent to IFTTT.](/images/integrations/ifttt/setup_trigger.png)

Add the *Then That* action. The below example sends a notification to the IFTTT mobile app and adds `value1` to the message:
![Example notification "then that" action.](/images/integrations/ifttt/setup_then_that.png)

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml Automation entry
automation:
  alias: "Startup Notification"
  trigger:
    platform: homeassistant
    event: start
  action:
    service: ifttt.trigger
    data: {"event":"TestHA_Trigger", "value1":"Hello World!"}
```

{% endraw %}

IFTTT can also be used in scripts and with templates. Here is the above automation broken into an automation and script using variables and templates.

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml Automation entry
automation:
  alias: "Startup Notification"
  trigger:
    platform: homeassistant
    event: start
  action:
    service: script.ifttt_notify
    data:
      value1: "HA Status:"
      value2: "{{ trigger.event.data.entity_id.split('_')[1] }} is "
      value3: "{{ trigger.event.data.to_state.state }}"
```

{% endraw %}

{% raw %}

```yaml
#Example Script to send TestHA_Trigger to IFTTT but with some other data (homeassistant UP).
ifttt_notify:
  sequence:
    - service: ifttt.trigger
      data: {"event":"TestHA_Trigger", "value1":"{{ value1 }}", "value2":"{{ value2 }}", "value3":"{{ value3 }}"}
```

{% endraw %}
