source/_integrations/lg_netcast.markdown, before:

---
title: LG Netcast
description: Instructions on how to integrate a LG TV (Netcast 3.0 & 4.0) within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media Player
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_release: '0.20'
ha_domain: lg_netcast
ha_platforms:
  - media_player
---

The `lg_netcast` platform allows you to control a LG Smart TV running NetCast 3.0 (LG Smart TV models released in 2012) and NetCast 4.0 (LG Smart TV models released in 2013). For the new LG WebOS TV's use the [webostv](/integrations/webostv#media-player) platform.

To add a LG TV to your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
media_player:
  - platform: lg_netcast
    host: IP_ADDRESS
```

{% configuration %}
host:
  description: The IP address of the LG Smart TV, e.g., 192.168.0.20.
  required: true
  type: string
access_token:
  description: The access token needed to connect.
  required: false
  type: string
name:
  description: The name you would like to give to the LG Smart TV.
  required: false
  default: LG TV Remote
  type: string
turn_on_action:
  description: Defines an [action](/docs/automation/action/) to turn the TV on.
  required: false
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

To get the access token for your TV configure the `lg_netcast` platform in Home Assistant without the `access_token`.
After starting Home Assistant the TV will display the access token on screen.
Just add the token to your configuration and restart Home Assistant and the media player integration for your LG TV will show up.

<div class='note'>
  The access token will not change until you factory reset your TV.
</div>

## Advanced configuration

The example below shows how you can use the `turn_on_action`

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
media_player:
  - platform: lg_netcast
    host: 192.168.0.20
    turn_on_action:
      service: switch.turn_on
      target:
        entity_id: switch.tv_switch
```

Commit message:

Add wake_on_lan to netcast example

source/_integrations/lg_netcast.markdown, after:

---
title: LG Netcast
description: Instructions on how to integrate a LG TV (Netcast 3.0 & 4.0) within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media Player
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_release: '0.20'
ha_domain: lg_netcast
ha_platforms:
  - media_player
---

The `lg_netcast` platform allows you to control a LG Smart TV running NetCast 3.0 (LG Smart TV models released in 2012) and NetCast 4.0 (LG Smart TV models released in 2013). For the new LG WebOS TV's use the [webostv](/integrations/webostv#media-player) platform.

To add a LG TV to your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
media_player:
  - platform: lg_netcast
    host: IP_ADDRESS
```

{% configuration %}
host:
  description: The IP address of the LG Smart TV, e.g., 192.168.0.20.
  required: true
  type: string
access_token:
  description: The access token needed to connect.
  required: false
  type: string
name:
  description: The name you would like to give to the LG Smart TV.
  required: false
  default: LG TV Remote
  type: string
turn_on_action:
  description: Defines an [action](/docs/automation/action/) to turn the TV on.
  required: false
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

To get the access token for your TV configure the `lg_netcast` platform in Home Assistant without the `access_token`.
After starting Home Assistant the TV will display the access token on screen.
Just add the token to your configuration and restart Home Assistant and the media player integration for your LG TV will show up.

<div class='note'>
  The access token will not change until you factory reset your TV.
</div>

## Advanced configuration

The example below shows how you can use the `turn_on_action` the [`wake_on_lan` integration](/integrations/wake_on_lan/).

```yaml
wake_on_lan: # enables `wake_on_lan` integration

# Enables the `lg_netcast` media player
media_player:
  - platform: lg_netcast
    host: 192.168.0.20
    turn_on_action:
      service: wake_on_lan.send_magic_packet
      data:
        mac: AA-BB-CC-DD-EE-FF
        broadcast_address: 11.22.33.44
```
