source/_integrations/lifx.markdown, before:

---
title: LIFX
description: Instructions on how to integrate LIFX into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Light
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_release: 0.81
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: lifx
ha_homekit: true
ha_platforms:
  - light
---

The `lifx` integration allows you to integrate your [LIFX](https://www.lifx.com) into Home Assistant.

_Please note, the `lifx` integration does not support Windows. The `lifx_legacy` light platform (supporting basic functionality) can be used instead._

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Set state

The LIFX bulbs allow a change of color and brightness even when they are turned off. This way you can control the light during the day so its settings are correct when events for turning on are received, for example from motion detectors or external buttons.

The normal `light.turn_on` call cannot be used for this because it always turns the power on. Thus, LIFX has its own service call that allows color changes without affecting the current power state.

### Service `lifx.set_state`

Change the light to a new state.

| Service data attribute | Description |
| ---------------------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s of lights. Use `entity_id: all` to target all.
| `transition` | Duration (in seconds) for the light to fade to the new state.
| `zones` | List of integers for the zone numbers to affect (each LIFX Z strip has 8 zones, starting at 0).
| `infrared` | Automatic infrared level (0..255) when light brightness is low (for compatible bulbs).
| `power` | Turn the light on (`True`) or off (`False`). Leave out to keep the power as it is.
| `...` | Use `color_name`, `brightness` etc. from [`light.turn_on`](/integrations/light/#service-lightturn_on) to specify the new state.

## Light effects

The LIFX platform supports several light effects. You can start these effects with default options by using the `effect` attribute of the normal [`light.turn_on`](/integrations/light/#service-lightturn_on) service, for example like this:
```yaml
automation:
  - alias: "..."
    trigger:
      # ...
    action:
      - service: light.turn_on
        target:
          entity_id: light.office, light.kitchen
        data:
          effect: lifx_effect_pulse
```

However, if you want to fully control a light effect, you have to use its dedicated service call, like this:
```yaml
script:
  colorloop_start:
    alias: "Start colorloop"
    sequence:
      - service: lifx.effect_colorloop
        target:
          entity_id: group.livingroom
        data:
          brightness: 255
          period: 10
          spread: 30
          change: 35
```

The available light effects and their options are listed below.

### Service `lifx.effect_pulse`

Run a flash effect by changing to a color and then back.

| Service data attribute | Description |
| ---------------------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s of lights. Use `entity_id: all` to target all.
| `color_name` | A color name such as `red` or `green`.
| `rgb_color` | A list containing three integers representing the RGB color you want the light to be.
| `brightness` | Integer between 0 and 255 for how bright the color should be.
| `period` | The duration of a single pulse (in seconds).
| `cycles` | The total number of pulses.
| `mode` | The way to change between colors. Valid modes: `blink` (default - direct transition to new color for 'period' time with original color between cycles), `breathe` (color fade transition to new color and back to original), `ping` (short pulse of new color), `strobe` (light turns off between color changes), `solid`(light does not return to original color between cycles).
| `power_on` | Set this to False to skip the effect on lights that are turned off (defaults to True).

### Service `lifx.effect_colorloop`

Run an effect with colors looping around the color wheel. All participating lights will coordinate to keep similar (but not identical) colors.

| Service data attribute | Description |
| ---------------------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s of lights. Use `entity_id: all` to target all.
| `brightness` | Number between 0 and 255 indicating brightness of the effect. Leave this out to maintain the current brightness of each participating light.
| `period` | Duration (in seconds) between starting a new color change.
| `transition` | Duration (in seconds) where lights are actively changing color.
| `change` | Hue movement per period, in degrees on a color wheel (ranges from 0 to 359).
| `spread` | Maximum color difference between participating lights, in degrees on a color wheel (ranges from 0 to 359).
| `power_on` | Set this to False to skip the effect on lights that are turned off (defaults to True).

### Service `lifx.effect_stop`

Run an effect that does nothing, thereby stopping any other effect that might be running.

| Service data attribute | Description |
| ---------------------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s of lights. Use `entity_id: all` to target all.


## Advanced configuration

There are some manual configuration options available. These are only needed with unusual network setups where automatic configuration does not find your LIFX devices.

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
lifx:
  light:
    - server: IP_ADDRESS
      port: 56700
      broadcast: IP_ADDRESS
```

{% configuration %}
server:
  description: Your server address. Will listen on all interfaces if omitted.
  required: false
  type: string
port:
  description: The UDP port for discovery. Will listen on a random port if omitted.
  required: false
  type: integer
broadcast:
  description: The broadcast address for discovering lights. Can also set this to the IP address of a bulb to skip discovery.
  required: false
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

Commit message:

Update LIFX documentation
This removes the reference to `lifx_legacy` which no longer exists
and adds a section for the LIFX Switch which can only be integrated
using the homekit_controller component.

Signed-off-by: Avi Miller <me@dje.li>

source/_integrations/lifx.markdown, after:

---
title: LIFX
description: Instructions on how to integrate LIFX into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Light
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_release: 0.81
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: lifx
ha_homekit: true
ha_platforms:
  - light
---

The `lifx` integration allows you to integrate your [LIFX](https://www.lifx.com) bulbs into Home Assistant.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Set state

The LIFX bulbs allow a change of color and brightness even when they are turned off. This way you can control the light during the day so its settings are correct when events for turning on are received, for example from motion detectors or external buttons.

The normal `light.turn_on` call cannot be used for this because it always turns the power on. Thus, LIFX has its own service call that allows color changes without affecting the current power state.

### Service `lifx.set_state`

Change the light to a new state.

| Service data attribute | Description |
| ---------------------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s of lights. Use `entity_id: all` to target all.
| `transition` | Duration (in seconds) for the light to fade to the new state.
| `zones` | List of integers for the zone numbers to affect (each LIFX Z strip has 8 zones, starting at 0).
| `infrared` | Automatic infrared level (0..255) when light brightness is low (for compatible bulbs).
| `power` | Turn the light on (`True`) or off (`False`). Leave out to keep the power as it is.
| `...` | Use `color_name`, `brightness` etc. from [`light.turn_on`](/integrations/light/#service-lightturn_on) to specify the new state.

## Light effects

The LIFX platform supports several light effects. You can start these effects with default options by using the `effect` attribute of the normal [`light.turn_on`](/integrations/light/#service-lightturn_on) service, for example like this:
```yaml
automation:
  - alias: "..."
    trigger:
      # ...
    action:
      - service: light.turn_on
        target:
          entity_id: light.office, light.kitchen
        data:
          effect: lifx_effect_pulse
```

However, if you want to fully control a light effect, you have to use its dedicated service call, like this:
```yaml
script:
  colorloop_start:
    alias: "Start colorloop"
    sequence:
      - service: lifx.effect_colorloop
        target:
          entity_id: group.livingroom
        data:
          brightness: 255
          period: 10
          spread: 30
          change: 35
```

The available light effects and their options are listed below.

### Service `lifx.effect_pulse`

Run a flash effect by changing to a color and then back.

| Service data attribute | Description |
| ---------------------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s of lights. Use `entity_id: all` to target all.
| `color_name` | A color name such as `red` or `green`.
| `rgb_color` | A list containing three integers representing the RGB color you want the light to be.
| `brightness` | Integer between 0 and 255 for how bright the color should be.
| `period` | The duration of a single pulse (in seconds).
| `cycles` | The total number of pulses.
| `mode` | The way to change between colors. Valid modes: `blink` (default - direct transition to new color for 'period' time with original color between cycles), `breathe` (color fade transition to new color and back to original), `ping` (short pulse of new color), `strobe` (light turns off between color changes), `solid`(light does not return to original color between cycles).
| `power_on` | Set this to False to skip the effect on lights that are turned off (defaults to True).

### Service `lifx.effect_colorloop`

Run an effect with colors looping around the color wheel. All participating lights will coordinate to keep similar (but not identical) colors.

| Service data attribute | Description |
| ---------------------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s of lights. Use `entity_id: all` to target all.
| `brightness` | Number between 0 and 255 indicating brightness of the effect. Leave this out to maintain the current brightness of each participating light.
| `period` | Duration (in seconds) between starting a new color change.
| `transition` | Duration (in seconds) where lights are actively changing color.
| `change` | Hue movement per period, in degrees on a color wheel (ranges from 0 to 359).
| `spread` | Maximum color difference between participating lights, in degrees on a color wheel (ranges from 0 to 359).
| `power_on` | Set this to False to skip the effect on lights that are turned off (defaults to True).

### Service `lifx.effect_stop`

Run an effect that does nothing, thereby stopping any other effect that might be running.

| Service data attribute | Description |
| ---------------------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s of lights. Use `entity_id: all` to target all.


## Advanced configuration

There are some manual configuration options available. These are only needed with unusual network setups where automatic configuration does not find your LIFX devices.

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
lifx:
  light:
    - server: IP_ADDRESS
      port: 56700
      broadcast: IP_ADDRESS
```

{% configuration %}
server:
  description: Your server address. Will listen on all interfaces if omitted.
  required: false
  type: string
port:
  description: The UDP port for discovery. Will listen on a random port if omitted.
  required: false
  type: integer
broadcast:
  description: The broadcast address for discovering lights. Can also set this to the IP address of a bulb to skip discovery.
  required: false
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

## LIFX Switch

The `lifx` integration does not support the LIFX Switch. However, the `homekit_controller` integration can be used instead for
[LIFX Switch running firmware 3.90](https://support.lifx.com/en_us/switch-3-90-update-rk4zYiXVq) or higher. Follow the LIFX
documentation to obtain a HomeKit code prior to integrating the Switch with Home Assistant as it will be needed during the process.

When using the `homekit_controller` integration, each button on the LIFX Switch is discovered as a
[stateless switch](/integrations/homekit_controller#stateless-switches-and-sensors) and will not appear as an entity in Home Assistant.
Relays that are configured as wired to non-LIFX devices will appear as normal switches in Home Assistant.

### Troubleshooting discovery

If your switch is not automatically discovered or you get a "_Cannot add pairing as device can no longer be found_" error
during the config process, [reboot your LIFX Switch](https://support.lifx.com/troubleshooting-switch-Hk6RWujLd) as they
only broadcast HomeKit compatibility for 15 minutes.
