source/_integrations/mazda.markdown, before:

---
title: Mazda Connected Services
description: Instructions on how to integrate your Connected Services capable Mazda vehicle with Home Assistant.
ha_release: '2021.3'
ha_category:
  - Car
  - Lock
  - Presence Detection
  - Sensor
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_quality_scale: platinum
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@bdr99'
ha_domain: mazda
ha_platforms:
  - device_tracker
  - sensor
---

The Mazda Connected Services integration allows you to retrieve data from a Mazda vehicle. In order to use this integration, you must first register your vehicle using the MyMazda app ([iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/mymazda/id451886367)/[Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.interrait.mymazda)).

This integration requires an active Mazda Connected Services subscription and a compatible vehicle. The following Mazda vehicles are Mazda Connected Services capable:

- Mazda3: 2019+
- CX-30: 2020+
- CX-9: 2021+
- CX-5: 2021+

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

<div class='note warning'>
    The MyMazda API only allows one active session at a time. Therefore, if you use the same account with both Home Assistant and the MyMazda mobile app, you may experience issues ("Multiple devices detected" notifications, session expired warnings, etc.) To fix this, you can create a secondary MyMazda account, and share your vehicle with the secondary account. Log in to the mobile app using the primary account and select Menu > MyMazda > My Vehicle > Drivers > Manage Drivers > Invite Driver. When finished, log into the secondary account with Home Assistant.
</div>

## Platforms

### Sensor

The following sensor entities are available:
- Fuel remaining
- Fuel distance remaining
- Odometer
- Tire pressure (not available for CX-5 and CX-9 models)

### Device tracker

Tracks the current location of the vehicle. This will generally update when the vehicle is switched off.

### Lock

Displays the current door lock status of the vehicle, and locks/unlocks the doors of the vehicle.

<div class='note info'>
    The "Automatic Re-Lock" feature will automatically re-lock the doors if they are not opened shortly after being unlocked. This applies regardless of whether you are using the key, or unlocking the doors remotely using Home Assistant or the MyMazda app.
</div>

## Services

### Start engine

Starts the vehicle engine. The vehicle engine can only be remotely started 2 consecutive times. To reset this counter, the vehicle must be driven.

### Stop engine

Stops the vehicle engine. This only works if the vehicle was remotely started.

### Start charging

Starts charging the vehicle battery. This only works with electric vehicles.

### Stop charging

Stops charging the vehicle battery. This only works with electric vehicles.

### Send POI

Send a GPS location to the vehicle's navigation system as a POI (Point of Interest). Requires a navigation SD card installed in the vehicle.

### Turn on hazard lights

Turn on the vehicle hazard lights. The lights will flash briefly and then turn off.

### Turn off hazard lights

Temporarily turn off the vehicle hazard lights if they have been manually turned on from inside the vehicle. If a door is opened, the hazard lights will turn back on.

## Disclaimer

This integration is not affiliated with or endorsed by Mazda.

Commit message:

Add documentation of input parameters for services

source/_integrations/mazda.markdown, after:

---
title: Mazda Connected Services
description: Instructions on how to integrate your Connected Services capable Mazda vehicle with Home Assistant.
ha_release: '2021.3'
ha_category:
  - Car
  - Lock
  - Presence Detection
  - Sensor
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_quality_scale: platinum
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@bdr99'
ha_domain: mazda
ha_platforms:
  - device_tracker
  - sensor
---

The Mazda Connected Services integration allows you to retrieve data from a Mazda vehicle. In order to use this integration, you must first register your vehicle using the MyMazda app ([iOS](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/mymazda/id451886367)/[Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.interrait.mymazda)).

This integration requires an active Mazda Connected Services subscription and a compatible vehicle. The following Mazda vehicles are Mazda Connected Services capable:

- Mazda3: 2019+
- CX-30: 2020+
- CX-9: 2021+
- CX-5: 2021+

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

<div class='note warning'>
    The MyMazda API only allows one active session at a time. Therefore, if you use the same account with both Home Assistant and the MyMazda mobile app, you may experience issues ("Multiple devices detected" notifications, session expired warnings, etc.) To fix this, you can create a secondary MyMazda account, and share your vehicle with the secondary account. Log in to the mobile app using the primary account and select Menu > MyMazda > My Vehicle > Drivers > Manage Drivers > Invite Driver. When finished, log into the secondary account with Home Assistant.
</div>

## Platforms

### Sensor

The following sensor entities are available:
- Fuel remaining
- Fuel distance remaining
- Odometer
- Tire pressure (not available for CX-5 and CX-9 models)

### Device tracker

Tracks the current location of the vehicle. This will generally update when the vehicle is switched off.

### Lock

Displays the current door lock status of the vehicle, and locks/unlocks the doors of the vehicle.

<div class='note info'>
    The "Automatic Re-Lock" feature will automatically re-lock the doors if they are not opened shortly after being unlocked. This applies regardless of whether you are using the key, or unlocking the doors remotely using Home Assistant or the MyMazda app.
</div>

## Services

This integration offers several services for interacting with Mazda vehicles. All of the services require the following input parameter:

| Parameter | YAML ID | Description |
| --------- | ------- | ----------- |
| Vehicle | `device_id` | The vehicle to execute the service for. In YAML mode, this is the device ID of the vehicle. |

### Start engine

Starts the vehicle engine. The vehicle engine can only be remotely started 2 consecutive times. To reset this counter, the vehicle must be driven.

### Stop engine

Stops the vehicle engine. This only works if the vehicle was remotely started.

### Start charging

Starts charging the vehicle battery. This only works with electric vehicles.

### Stop charging

Stops charging the vehicle battery. This only works with electric vehicles.

### Send POI

Send a GPS location to the vehicle's navigation system as a POI (Point of Interest). Requires a navigation SD card installed in the vehicle.

This service requires the following input parameters in addition to the vehicle:

| Parameter | YAML ID | Description |
| --------- | ------- | ----------- |
| Latitude | `latitude` | The latitude of the location to send. |
| Longitude | `longitude` | The longitude of the location to send. |
| POI name | `poi_name` | A friendly name for the location. |

### Turn on hazard lights

Turn on the vehicle hazard lights. The lights will flash briefly and then turn off.

### Turn off hazard lights

Temporarily turn off the vehicle hazard lights if they have been manually turned on from inside the vehicle. If a door is opened, the hazard lights will turn back on.

## Disclaimer

This integration is not affiliated with or endorsed by Mazda.
