source/_integrations/mikrotik.markdown, before:

---
title: Mikrotik
description: Instructions on how to integrate MikroTik/RouterOS based devices into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Hub
  - Presence Detection
ha_release: 0.44
ha_codeowners:
  - '@engrbm87'
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: mikrotik
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_platforms:
  - device_tracker
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `mikrotik` platform offers presence detection by looking at connected devices to a [MikroTik RouterOS](https://mikrotik.com) based router.

There is currently support for the following device types within Home Assistant:

- Presence Detection

## Prerequisites

You have to enable accessing the RouterOS API on your router to use this platform.

Terminal:

```bash
/ip service
set api disabled=no port=8728
```

Web Frontend:

Go to **IP** -> **Services** -> **API** and enable it.

Make sure that port 8728 or the port you choose is accessible from your network.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Use a certificate

To use SSL to connect to the API (via `api-ssl` instead of `api` service) further configuration is required at RouterOS side. You have to upload or generate a certificate and configure `api-ssl` service to use it. Here is an example of a self-signed certificate:

```bash
/certificate add common-name="Self signed demo certificate for API" days-valid=3650 name="Self signed demo certificate for API" key-usage=digital-signature,key-encipherment,tls-server,key-cert-sign,crl-sign
/certificate sign "Self signed demo certificate for API"
/ip service set api-ssl certificate="Self signed demo certificate for API"
/ip service enable api-ssl
```

If everything is working fine you can disable the pure `api` service in RouterOS:

```bash
/ip service disable api
```

## The user privileges in RouterOS

To use this device tracker you need restricted privileges only. To enhance the security of your MikroTik device create a "read only" user who is able to connect to API  and perform ping test only:

```bash
/user group add name=homeassistant policy=read,api,!local,!telnet,!ssh,!ftp,!reboot,!write,!policy,test,!winbox,!password,!web,!sniff,!sensitive,!romon,!dude,!tikapp
/user add group=homeassistant name=homeassistant
/user set password="YOUR_PASSWORD" homeassistant
```

Commit message:

Added tip that RouterOS uses ping

source/_integrations/mikrotik.markdown, after:

---
title: Mikrotik
description: Instructions on how to integrate MikroTik/RouterOS based devices into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Hub
  - Presence Detection
ha_release: 0.44
ha_codeowners:
  - '@engrbm87'
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: mikrotik
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_platforms:
  - device_tracker
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `mikrotik` platform offers presence detection by looking at connected devices to a [MikroTik RouterOS](https://mikrotik.com) based router.

There is currently support for the following device types within Home Assistant:

- Presence Detection

## Prerequisites

You have to enable accessing the RouterOS API on your router to use this platform.
RouterOS uses ping test to determine client presence, make sure you are not blocking this on the client (Windows firewall default behaviour), as this will result in Homeassistant `device_tracker` having state `Not_home`.

Terminal:

```bash
/ip service
set api disabled=no port=8728
```

Web Frontend:

Go to **IP** -> **Services** -> **API** and enable it.

Make sure that port 8728 or the port you choose is accessible from your network.


{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Use a certificate

To use SSL to connect to the API (via `api-ssl` instead of `api` service) further configuration is required at RouterOS side. You have to upload or generate a certificate and configure `api-ssl` service to use it. Here is an example of a self-signed certificate:

```bash
/certificate add common-name="Self signed demo certificate for API" days-valid=3650 name="Self signed demo certificate for API" key-usage=digital-signature,key-encipherment,tls-server,key-cert-sign,crl-sign
/certificate sign "Self signed demo certificate for API"
/ip service set api-ssl certificate="Self signed demo certificate for API"
/ip service enable api-ssl
```

If everything is working fine you can disable the pure `api` service in RouterOS:

```bash
/ip service disable api
```

## The user privileges in RouterOS

To use this device tracker you need restricted privileges only. To enhance the security of your MikroTik device create a "read only" user who is able to connect to API  and perform ping test only:

```bash
/user group add name=homeassistant policy=read,api,!local,!telnet,!ssh,!ftp,!reboot,!write,!policy,test,!winbox,!password,!web,!sniff,!sensitive,!romon,!dude,!tikapp
/user add group=homeassistant name=homeassistant
/user set password="YOUR_PASSWORD" homeassistant
```
