source/_integrations/nad.markdown, before:

---
title: NAD
description: Instructions on how to integrate NAD receivers into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media Player
ha_release: 0.36
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_domain: nad
---

The `nad` platform allows you to control a [NAD receiver](https://nadelectronics.com/) through RS232, TCP and Telnet from Home Assistant.

To add an NAD receiver to your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for RS232 configuration
media_player:
  - platform: nad
    serial_port: /dev/ttyUSB0
```
```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for TCP configuration
media_player:
  - platform: nad
    type: TCP
    host: IP_ADDRESS
```

{% configuration %}
type:
  description: Type of communication. Valid types are `RS232`, `Telnet` or `TCP`
  required: false
  default: RS232
  type: string
serial_port:
  description: The serial port. (for `RS232` type only)
  required: false
  default: /dev/ttyUSB0
  type: string
host:
  description: The IP address of your amplifier. (for `TCP` and `Telnet` types)
  required: false
  type: string
port:
  description: The port number of the device. (for `Telnet` type only)
  required: false
  default: 53
  type: integer
name:
  description: Name of the device.
  required: false
  default: NAD Receiver
  type: string
min_volume:
  description: Minimum volume in dB to use with the slider.
  required: false
  default: -92
  type: integer
max_volume:
  description: Maximum volume in dB to use with the slider.
  required: false
  default: -20
  type: integer
sources:
  description: A list of mappings from source to source name. Valid sources are `1 to 10`. (for `RS232` and `Telnet` types)
  required: false
  type: [list, string]
volume_step:
  description: The amount in dB you want to increase the volume with when pressing volume up/down. (for `TCP` type only)
  required: false
  default: 4
  type: integer
{% endconfiguration %}

The min_volume and max_volume are there to protect you against misclicks on the slider so you will not blow up your speakers when you go from -92dB to +20dB. You can still force it to go higher or lower than the values set with the plus and minus buttons.

<div class='note warning'>

On Linux the user running Home Assistant needs `dialout` permissions to access the serial port.
This can be added to the user by doing `sudo usermod -a -G dialout <username>`.
Be aware that the user might need to logout and logon again to activate these permissions.

</div>

A full configuration example could look like this:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
media_player:
  - platform: nad
    serial_port: /dev/ttyUSB0
    name: NAD Receiver
    min_volume: -60
    max_volume: -20
    sources:
      1: "Kodi"
      2: "TV"
```

Commit message:

Add note about tested hardware in NAD documentation (#16870)

source/_integrations/nad.markdown, after:

---
title: NAD
description: Instructions on how to integrate NAD receivers into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media Player
ha_release: 0.36
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_domain: nad
---

The `nad` platform allows you to control a [NAD receiver](https://nadelectronics.com/) through RS232, TCP and Telnet from Home Assistant.

Please note that the RS232 interface is only tested with the NAD T748v2, but is should work with more NAD receivers.
The Telnet interface is only tested with the NAD T787.

## Configuration

To add an NAD receiver to your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for RS232 configuration
media_player:
  - platform: nad
    serial_port: /dev/ttyUSB0
```

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry for TCP configuration
media_player:
  - platform: nad
    type: TCP
    host: "IP_ADDRESS"
```

{% configuration %}
type:
  description: Type of communication. Valid types are `RS232`, `Telnet` or `TCP`
  required: false
  default: RS232
  type: string
serial_port:
  description: The serial port. (for `RS232` type only)
  required: false
  default: /dev/ttyUSB0
  type: string
host:
  description: The IP address of your amplifier. (for `TCP` and `Telnet` types)
  required: false
  type: string
port:
  description: The port number of the device. (for `Telnet` type only)
  required: false
  default: 53
  type: integer
name:
  description: Name of the device.
  required: false
  default: NAD Receiver
  type: string
min_volume:
  description: Minimum volume in dB to use with the slider.
  required: false
  default: -92
  type: integer
max_volume:
  description: Maximum volume in dB to use with the slider.
  required: false
  default: -20
  type: integer
sources:
  description: A list of mappings from source to source name. Valid sources are `1 to 10`. (for `RS232` and `Telnet` types)
  required: false
  type: [list, string]
volume_step:
  description: The amount in dB you want to increase the volume with when pressing volume up/down. (for `TCP` type only)
  required: false
  default: 4
  type: integer
{% endconfiguration %}

The min_volume and max_volume are there to protect you against misclicks on the slider so you will not blow up your speakers when you go from -92dB to +20dB. You can still force it to go higher or lower than the values set with the plus and minus buttons.

<div class='note warning'>

On Linux the user running Home Assistant needs `dialout` permissions to access the serial port.
This can be added to the user by doing `sudo usermod -a -G dialout <username>`.
Be aware that the user might need to logout and logon again to activate these permissions.

</div>

A full configuration example could look like this:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
media_player:
  - platform: nad
    serial_port: /dev/ttyUSB0
    name: "NAD Receiver"
    min_volume: -60
    max_volume: -20
    sources:
      1: "Kodi"
      2: "TV"
```
