source/_integrations/nina.markdown, before:

---
title: NINA
description: Instructions on how to set up NINA warnings in Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Binary Sensor
ha_release: 2022.2
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@DeerMaximum'
ha_domain: nina
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
---

The [NINA](https://www.bbk.bund.de/DE/Warnung-Vorsorge/Warn-App-NINA/warn-app-nina_node.html) integration displays warnings from the [Bundesamt für Bevölkerungsschutz und Katastrophenhilfe](https://www.bbk.bund.de/) in Germany.

For each county/city it creates warning slots that change to Unsafe when warnings are present. The text of the warning and the metadata are stored in the attributes of the slots.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Attributes

| Attribute    | Description                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------- |
| `headline` | *(str)* Official headline of the warning. |
| `description` | *(str)* Official description of the warning. |
| `sender` | *(str)* Sender of the warning. Can be empty. |
| `severity` | *(str)* Severity of the warning. <br>Extreme - Extraordinary threat to life or property <br>Severe - Significant threat to life or property <br>Moderate - Possible threat to life or property <br>Minor – Minimal to no known threat to life or property <br>Unknown - Severity unknown |
| `id` | *(str)* Individual ID for each warning. |
| `sent` | *(time)* Transmission time and date (UTC) of the issued warning. |
| `start` | *(time)* Starting time and date (UTC) of the issued warning. Can be empty. |
| `expires` | *(time)* Expiration time and date (UTC) of the issued warning. Can be empty. |

Commit message:

Add the possibility to combine sensors

source/_integrations/nina.markdown, after:

---
title: NINA
description: Instructions on how to set up NINA warnings in Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Binary Sensor
ha_release: 2022.2
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@DeerMaximum'
ha_domain: nina
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The [NINA](https://www.bbk.bund.de/DE/Warnung-Vorsorge/Warn-App-NINA/warn-app-nina_node.html) integration displays warnings from the [Bundesamt für Bevölkerungsschutz und Katastrophenhilfe](https://www.bbk.bund.de/) in Germany.

For each county/city it creates warning slots that change to Unsafe when warnings are present. It is also possible to combine the slots into one sensor. The text of the warning and the metadata are stored in the attributes of the slots.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Attributes

| Attribute    | Description                            |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------- |
| `headline` | *(str)* Official headline of the warning. |
| `description` | *(str)* Official description of the warning. |
| `sender` | *(str)* Sender of the warning. Can be empty. |
| `severity` | *(str)* Severity of the warning. <br>Extreme - Extraordinary threat to life or property <br>Severe - Significant threat to life or property <br>Moderate - Possible threat to life or property <br>Minor – Minimal to no known threat to life or property <br>Unknown - Severity unknown |
| `id` | *(str)* Individual ID for each warning. |
| `sent` | *(time)* Transmission time and date (UTC) of the issued warning. |
| `start` | *(time)* Starting time and date (UTC) of the issued warning. Can be empty. |
| `expires` | *(time)* Expiration time and date (UTC) of the issued warning. Can be empty. |
