source/_integrations/nuki.markdown, before:

---
title: Nuki
description: Instructions on how to integrate a Nuki Smart Lock devices.
ha_category:
  - Lock
ha_release: 0.38
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@pschmitt'
  - '@pvizeli'
  - '@pree'
ha_domain: nuki
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - lock
ha_config_flow: true
ha_dhcp: true
---

The Nuki integration allows you to control [Nuki Smart Locks](https://nuki.io/en/smart-lock/) via a [Nuki Bridge](https://nuki.io/en/bridge/).

## Prerequisites

To add a Nuki bridge to your installation, you need to enable developer mode on your bridge and define a port and an access token. This can be achieved using the [Android app](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.nuki) or [iPhone app](https://apps.apple.com/app/nuki-smart-lock/id1044998081). Go to manage my devices, and select the bridge. Within the bridge configuration turn on the HTTP API and check the details in the screen. Please note that the API token should be 6-20 characters long, even though the app allows you to set a longer one.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Services

### Service `nuki.lock_n_go`

This will first unlock, wait a few seconds (20 by default) then re-lock. The wait period can be customized through the app.
See the [Nuki Website](https://nuki.io/en/support/smart-lock/sl-features/locking-with-the-smart-lock/) for more details about this feature.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s Nuki Locks.
| `unlatch` | yes | Boolean - Whether to unlatch the door when first opening it.

Commit message:

Make documentation more complete
The Nuki integration has some specifics that are not obvious just from the lock domain perspective. Especially using the lock and unlock services for the ring-to-open function was not documented. Also, the binary sensor has been added.

source/_integrations/nuki.markdown, after:

---
title: Nuki
description: Instructions on how to integrate a Nuki Smart Lock devices.
ha_category:
  - Lock
ha_release: 0.38
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@pschmitt'
  - '@pvizeli'
  - '@pree'
ha_domain: nuki
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - lock
ha_config_flow: true
ha_dhcp: true
---

The Nuki integration allows you to control [Nuki Smart Locks](https://nuki.io/en/smart-lock/) via a [Nuki Bridge](https://nuki.io/en/bridge/).

## Prerequisites

To add a Nuki bridge to your installation, you need to enable developer mode on your bridge and define a port and an access token. This can be achieved using the [Android app](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.nuki) or [iPhone app](https://apps.apple.com/app/nuki-smart-lock/id1044998081). Go to manage my devices, and select the bridge. Within the bridge configuration turn on the HTTP API and check the details in the screen. Please note that the API token should be 6-20 characters long, even though the app allows you to set a longer one.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Binary Sensors

The integration provides a binary sensor if the Nuki door sensor is available. 

## Services

### Service `lock.unlock`

If the lock is a Nuki Smart Lock, the service will unlock the door. If the lock is a Nuki Opener, the service will enable the ring-to-open feature. See the [Nuki Website](https://support.nuki.io/hc/en-us/articles/360019424298-Ring-To-Open) for more details about this feature.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | no | Entity of the relevant lock.

### Service `lock.lock`

If the lock is a Nuki Smart Lock, the service will lock the door. If the lock is a Nuki Opener, the service will disable the ring-to-open feature. See the [Nuki Website](https://support.nuki.io/hc/en-us/articles/360019424298-Ring-To-Open) for more details about this feature.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | no | Entity of the relevant lock.

### Service `lock.open`

If the lock is a Nuki Smart Lock, the service will unlatch the door. If the lock is a Nuki Opener, the service will buzz the door open.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | no | Entity of the relevant lock.

### Service `nuki.lock_n_go`

This will first unlock, wait a few seconds (20 by default) then re-lock. The wait period can be customized through the app.
See the [Nuki Website](https://nuki.io/en/support/smart-lock/sl-features/locking-with-the-smart-lock/) for more details about this feature.

| Service data attribute | Optional | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `entity_id` | yes | String or list of strings that point at `entity_id`s Nuki Locks.
| `unlatch` | yes | Boolean - Whether to unlatch the door when first opening it.
