source/_integrations/peco.markdown, before:

---
title: PECO Outage Counter
description: Get how many outages are in your county
ha_release: 2022.4
ha_category:
  - Sensor
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@IceBotYT'
ha_domain: peco
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
---

PECO is a public utility company that provides electricity to the Philadelphia metro.

To learn more about PECO, visit [**their about page**](https://www.peco.com/AboutUs/Pages/Default.aspx).

<div class='note'>

This integration is only for PECO customers. To see if your county is supported, take a look at [**their outage map**](https://www.peco.com/Outages/CheckOutageStatus/Pages/OutageMap.aspx).

</div>

---

The PECO Outage Counter integration allows you to get the current count of power outages for any county, and the total for the operating region too.

This integration will create 4 entities.

- A sensor that shows how many outages are in your county.
- A sensor that shows the total amount of customers with no power.
- A sensor that shows the total amount of customers served in the county.
- A sensor that shows the percentage of customers with no power.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

Commit message:

Update PECO page with new map alert entity (#22331)

source/_integrations/peco.markdown, after:

---
title: PECO Outage Counter
description: Get how many outages are in your county
ha_release: 2022.4
ha_category:
  - Sensor
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@IceBotYT'
ha_domain: peco
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
---

PECO is a public utility company that provides electricity to the Philadelphia metro.

To learn more about PECO, visit [**their about page**](https://www.peco.com/AboutUs/Pages/Default.aspx).

<div class='note'>

This integration is only for PECO customers. To see if your county is supported, take a look at [**their outage map**](https://www.peco.com/Outages/CheckOutageStatus/Pages/OutageMap.aspx).

</div>

---

The PECO Outage Counter integration allows you to get the current count of power outages for any county, and the total for the operating region too.

This integration will create 5 entities.

- A sensor that shows how many outages are in your county.
- A sensor that shows the total amount of customers with no power.
- A sensor that shows the total amount of customers served in the county.
- A sensor that shows the percentage of customers with no power.
- A sensor that shows the alert that appears when you open the online outage map.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}
