source/_integrations/prometheus.markdown, before:

---
title: Prometheus
description: Record events in Prometheus.
ha_category:
  - History
ha_release: 0.49
ha_iot_class: Assumed State
ha_domain: prometheus
ha_codeowners:
  - '@knyar'
---

The `prometheus` integration exposes metrics in a format which [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) can read.

## Configuration

To use the `prometheus` integration in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
prometheus:
```

{% configuration %}
namespace:
  description: The "namespace" that will be assigned to all the Prometheus metrics. This is the prefix of the metric name. E.g., having `myhass` as the namespace will cause the device tracker metrics to be `myhass_device_tracker_state`, the switch metrics to be `myhass_switch_state` and so on. The default is to not add any prefix to the metrics name. (available in version 0.73.0 and later)
  required: false
  type: string
filter:
  description: Filtering directives for the integrations which should be included or excluded from recording. ([Configure Filter](#configure-filter))
  required: false
  type: list
  keys:
    exclude_entities:
      description: The list of entity ids to be excluded from recording.
      required: false
      type: list
    exclude_entity_globs:
      description: Exclude all entities matching a listed pattern (e.g., `sensor.weather_*`).
      required: false
      type: list
    exclude_domains:
      description: The list of domains to be excluded from recording.
      required: false
      type: list
    include_entities:
      description: The list of entity ids to be included from recordings. If set, all other entities will not be recorded. Values set by the **exclude_*** option will prevail.
      required: false
      type: list
    include_entity_globs:
      description: Include all entities matching a listed pattern (e.g., `sensor.weather_*`). If set, all other entities will not be recorded. Values set by the **exclude_*** option will prevail.
      required: false
      type: list
    include_domains:
      description: The list of domains to be included from recordings. If set, all other entities will not be recorded. Values set by the **exclude_*** option will prevail.
      required: false
      type: list
default_metric:
  type: string
  description: Metric name to use when an entity doesn't have a unit.
  required: false
  default: uses the entity id of the entity
override_metric:
  type: string
  description: Metric name to use instead of unit or default metric. This will store all data points in a single metric.
  required: false
component_config:
  type: string
  required: false
  description: This attribute contains component-specific override values. See [Customizing devices and services](/getting-started/customizing-devices/) for format.
  keys:
    override_metric:
      type: string
      description: Metric name to use instead of unit or default metric. This will store all data points in a single metric.
      required: false
component_config_domain:
  type: string
  required: false
  description: This attribute contains domain-specific component override values. See [Customizing devices and services](/getting-started/customizing-devices/) for format.
  keys:
    override_metric:
      type: string
      description: Metric name to use instead of unit or default metric. This will store all data points in a single metric.
      required: false
component_config_glob:
  type: string
  required: false
  description: This attribute contains component-specific override values. See [Customizing devices and services](/getting-started/customizing-devices/) for format.
  keys:
    override_metric:
      type: string
      description: Metric name to use instead of unit or default metric. This will store all data points in a single metric.
      required: false

{% endconfiguration %}

### Configure Filter

By default, no entity will be excluded. To limit which entities are being exposed to `Prometheus`, you can use the `filter` parameter.

```yaml
# Example filter to include specified domains and exclude specified entities
prometheus:
  filter:
    include_domains:
      - alarm_control_panel
      - light
    include_entity_globs:
      - binary_sensor.*_occupancy
    exclude_entities:
      - light.kitchen_light
```

Filters are applied as follows:

1. No includes or excludes - pass all entities
2. Includes, no excludes - only include specified entities
3. Excludes, no includes - only exclude specified entities
4. Both includes and excludes:
   - Include domain and/or glob patterns specified
      - If domain is included, and entity not excluded or match exclude glob pattern, pass
      - If entity matches include glob pattern, and entity does not match any exclude criteria (domain, glob pattern or listed), pass
      - If domain is not included, glob pattern does not match, and entity not included, fail
   - Exclude domain and/or glob patterns specified and include does not list domains or glob patterns
      - If domain is excluded and entity not included, fail
      - If entity matches exclude glob pattern and entity not included, fail
      - If entity does not match any exclude criteria (domain, glob pattern or listed), pass
   - Neither include or exclude specifies domains or glob patterns
      - If entity is included, pass (as #2 above)
      - If entity include and exclude, the entity exclude is ignored

## Full Example

Advanced configuration example:

```yaml
# Advanced configuration.yaml entry
prometheus:
  namespace: hass
  component_config_glob:
    sensor.*_hum:
      override_metric: humidity_percent
    sensor.*_temp:
      override_metric: temperature_c
    sensor.temperature*:
      override_metric: temperature_c
    sensor.*_bat:
      override_metric: battery_percent
  filter:
    include_domains:
      - sensor
    exclude_entity_globs:
      - sensor.weather_*
```

You can then configure Prometheus to fetch metrics from Home Assistant by adding to its `scrape_configs` configuration.

```yaml
# Example Prometheus scrape_configs entry
  - job_name: "hass"
    scrape_interval: 60s
    metrics_path: /api/prometheus

    # Legacy api password
    params:
      api_password: ['PASSWORD']

    # Long-Lived Access Token
    bearer_token: "your.longlived.token"

    scheme: https
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['HOSTNAME:8123']
```

When looking into the metrics on the Prometheus side, there will be:

- All Home Assistant domains, which can be easily found through the common **namespace** prefix, if defined.
- The [client library](https://github.com/prometheus/client_python) provided metrics, which are a bunch of **process_\*** and also a single pseudo-metric **python_info** which contains (not as value but as labels) information about the Python version of the client, i.e., the Home Assistant Python interpreter.
  
Typically, you will only be interested in the first set of metrics.

Commit message:

Prometheus: option to ignore entities in STATE_UNKNOWN
Giving a value of 0 by default can lead to erroneous
data being exported. For example, if a MQTT temperature
sensor is in `STATE_UNKNOWN` (which can happen after a
HASS restart), a temperature of 0°C will be exported.

source/_integrations/prometheus.markdown, after:

---
title: Prometheus
description: Record events in Prometheus.
ha_category:
  - History
ha_release: 0.49
ha_iot_class: Assumed State
ha_domain: prometheus
ha_codeowners:
  - '@knyar'
---

The `prometheus` integration exposes metrics in a format which [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) can read.

## Configuration

To use the `prometheus` integration in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
prometheus:
```

{% configuration %}
namespace:
  description: The "namespace" that will be assigned to all the Prometheus metrics. This is the prefix of the metric name. E.g., having `myhass` as the namespace will cause the device tracker metrics to be `myhass_device_tracker_state`, the switch metrics to be `myhass_switch_state` and so on. The default is to not add any prefix to the metrics name. (available in version 0.73.0 and later)
  required: false
  type: string
filter:
  description: Filtering directives for the integrations which should be included or excluded from recording. ([Configure Filter](#configure-filter))
  required: false
  type: list
  keys:
    exclude_entities:
      description: The list of entity ids to be excluded from recording.
      required: false
      type: list
    exclude_entity_globs:
      description: Exclude all entities matching a listed pattern (e.g., `sensor.weather_*`).
      required: false
      type: list
    exclude_domains:
      description: The list of domains to be excluded from recording.
      required: false
      type: list
    include_entities:
      description: The list of entity ids to be included from recordings. If set, all other entities will not be recorded. Values set by the **exclude_*** option will prevail.
      required: false
      type: list
    include_entity_globs:
      description: Include all entities matching a listed pattern (e.g., `sensor.weather_*`). If set, all other entities will not be recorded. Values set by the **exclude_*** option will prevail.
      required: false
      type: list
    include_domains:
      description: The list of domains to be included from recordings. If set, all other entities will not be recorded. Values set by the **exclude_*** option will prevail.
      required: false
      type: list
default_metric:
  type: string
  description: Metric name to use when an entity doesn't have a unit.
  required: false
  default: uses the entity id of the entity
override_metric:
  type: string
  description: Metric name to use instead of unit or default metric. This will store all data points in a single metric.
  required: false
skip_unknown:
  type: boolean
  description: Skip metrics that are in STATE_UNKNOWN to prevent exporting values that could be wrong.
  required: false
  default: false
component_config:
  type: string
  required: false
  description: This attribute contains component-specific override values. See [Customizing devices and services](/getting-started/customizing-devices/) for format.
  keys:
    override_metric:
      type: string
      description: Metric name to use instead of unit or default metric. This will store all data points in a single metric.
      required: false
component_config_domain:
  type: string
  required: false
  description: This attribute contains domain-specific component override values. See [Customizing devices and services](/getting-started/customizing-devices/) for format.
  keys:
    override_metric:
      type: string
      description: Metric name to use instead of unit or default metric. This will store all data points in a single metric.
      required: false
component_config_glob:
  type: string
  required: false
  description: This attribute contains component-specific override values. See [Customizing devices and services](/getting-started/customizing-devices/) for format.
  keys:
    override_metric:
      type: string
      description: Metric name to use instead of unit or default metric. This will store all data points in a single metric.
      required: false

{% endconfiguration %}

### Configure Filter

By default, no entity will be excluded. To limit which entities are being exposed to `Prometheus`, you can use the `filter` parameter.

```yaml
# Example filter to include specified domains and exclude specified entities
prometheus:
  filter:
    include_domains:
      - alarm_control_panel
      - light
    include_entity_globs:
      - binary_sensor.*_occupancy
    exclude_entities:
      - light.kitchen_light
```

Filters are applied as follows:

1. No includes or excludes - pass all entities
2. Includes, no excludes - only include specified entities
3. Excludes, no includes - only exclude specified entities
4. Both includes and excludes:
   - Include domain and/or glob patterns specified
      - If domain is included, and entity not excluded or match exclude glob pattern, pass
      - If entity matches include glob pattern, and entity does not match any exclude criteria (domain, glob pattern or listed), pass
      - If domain is not included, glob pattern does not match, and entity not included, fail
   - Exclude domain and/or glob patterns specified and include does not list domains or glob patterns
      - If domain is excluded and entity not included, fail
      - If entity matches exclude glob pattern and entity not included, fail
      - If entity does not match any exclude criteria (domain, glob pattern or listed), pass
   - Neither include or exclude specifies domains or glob patterns
      - If entity is included, pass (as #2 above)
      - If entity include and exclude, the entity exclude is ignored

## Full Example

Advanced configuration example:

```yaml
# Advanced configuration.yaml entry
prometheus:
  namespace: hass
  skip_unknown: true
  component_config_glob:
    sensor.*_hum:
      override_metric: humidity_percent
    sensor.*_temp:
      override_metric: temperature_c
    sensor.temperature*:
      override_metric: temperature_c
    sensor.*_bat:
      override_metric: battery_percent
  filter:
    include_domains:
      - sensor
    exclude_entity_globs:
      - sensor.weather_*
```

You can then configure Prometheus to fetch metrics from Home Assistant by adding to its `scrape_configs` configuration.

```yaml
# Example Prometheus scrape_configs entry
  - job_name: "hass"
    scrape_interval: 60s
    metrics_path: /api/prometheus

    # Legacy api password
    params:
      api_password: ['PASSWORD']

    # Long-Lived Access Token
    bearer_token: "your.longlived.token"

    scheme: https
    static_configs:
      - targets: ['HOSTNAME:8123']
```

When looking into the metrics on the Prometheus side, there will be:

- All Home Assistant domains, which can be easily found through the common **namespace** prefix, if defined.
- The [client library](https://github.com/prometheus/client_python) provided metrics, which are a bunch of **process_\*** and also a single pseudo-metric **python_info** which contains (not as value but as labels) information about the Python version of the client, i.e., the Home Assistant Python interpreter.
  
Typically, you will only be interested in the first set of metrics.
