source/_integrations/radiotherm.markdown, before:

---
title: Radio Thermostat
description: Instructions on how to integrate Radio Thermostat (3M Filtrete) thermostats within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Climate
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_release: 0.7.6
ha_domain: radiotherm
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@bdraco'
  - '@vinnyfuria'
ha_platforms:
  - climate
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `radiotherm` climate platform let you control a thermostat from [Radio Thermostat](https://www.radiothermostat.com/) or [3M Filtrete](https://www.filtrete.com/). Your thermostat must have the Wi-Fi module installed and connected to your network.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

The underlying library supports:

- CT30 v1.75
- CT30 v1.92
- CT30 v1.94
- CT30 v1.99
- CT50 V1.09
- CT50 V1.88
- CT50 V1.92
- CT50 V1.94 (also known as Filtrete 3M50)
- CT80 Rev B1 V1.00
- CT80 Rev B2 V1.00
- CT80 Rev B2 V1.03
- CT80 Rev B2 V1.09

New models that are derivatives of the CT30 or CT80 should be detected automatically and basic functionality should work.

If you want temperature settings from Home Assistant to override a thermostat schedule on the thermostat itself, this can be configured in the options flow. Otherwise Home Assistant will perform temporary temperature changes.

Commit message:

Update radiotherm for hold mode switch

source/_integrations/radiotherm.markdown, after:

---
title: Radio Thermostat
description: Instructions on how to integrate Radio Thermostat (3M Filtrete) thermostats within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Climate
  - Switch
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_release: 0.7.6
ha_domain: radiotherm
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@bdraco'
  - '@vinnyfuria'
ha_platforms:
  - climate
  - switch
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `radiotherm` climate platform let you control a thermostat from [Radio Thermostat](https://www.radiothermostat.com/) or [3M Filtrete](https://www.filtrete.com/). Your thermostat must have the Wi-Fi module installed and connected to your network.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

The integration will automatically sync the time when Home Assistant starts if the device is not currently in hold mode, as syncing the time will disable hold mode.

## Hold mode

Hold mode can be enabled or disabled with the hold mode switch.

## Known working devices

- CT30 v1.75
- CT30 v1.92
- CT30 v1.94
- CT30 v1.99
- CT50 V1.09
- CT50 V1.88
- CT50 V1.92
- CT50 V1.94 (also known as Filtrete 3M50)
- CT80 Rev B1 V1.00
- CT80 Rev B2 V1.00
- CT80 Rev B2 V1.03
- CT80 Rev B2 V1.09

New models that are derivatives of the CT30 or CT80 should be detected automatically and basic functionality should work.

If you want temperature settings from Home Assistant to override a thermostat schedule on the thermostat itself, this can be configured in the options flow. Otherwise Home Assistant will perform temporary temperature changes.
