source/_integrations/samsungtv.markdown, before:

---
title: Samsung Smart TV
description: Instructions on how to integrate a Samsung Smart TV into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media Player
ha_release: 0.13
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@escoand'
ha_domain: samsungtv
ha_ssdp: true
ha_platforms:
  - media_player
---

The `samsungtv` platform allows you to control a [Samsung Smart TV](https://www.samsung.com/uk/tvs/all-tvs/).

### Setup

Go to the integrations page in your configuration and click on new integration -> Samsung TV.
If your TV is on and you have enabled [SSDP](/integrations/ssdp) discovery, it's likely that you just have to confirm the detected device.

When the TV is first connected, you will need to accept Home Assistant on the TV to allow communication.

### YAML Configuration

YAML configuration is around for people that prefer YAML.
To use this integration, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
samsungtv:
  - host: IP_ADDRESS
```

{% configuration %}
host:
  description: "The hostname or IP of the Samsung Smart TV, e.g., `192.168.0.10`."
  required: true
  type: string
name:
  description: The name you would like to give to the Samsung Smart TV.
  required: false
  type: string
turn_on_action:
  description: "Defines an [action](/docs/automation/action/) to turn the TV on."
  required: false
  type: list
{% endconfiguration %}

After saving the YAML configuration, the TV must be turned on _before_ launching Home Assistant in order for the TV to be registered the first time.

#### Wake up TV

To wake up the TV when switched off you can use the [wake-on-lan](/integrations/wake_on_lan/) integration and call a service. This is not possible with every device.

```yaml
wake_on_lan:

samsungtv:
  - host: IP_ADDRESS
    turn_on_action:
      - service: wake_on_lan.send_magic_packet
        data:
          mac: MAC_ADDRESS
```

### Usage

#### Changing channels

Changing channels can be done by calling the `media_player.play_media` service
with the following payload:

```yaml
entity_id: media_player.samsung_tv
media_content_id: 590
media_content_type: channel
```

#### Selecting a source

It's possible to switch between the 2 sources `TV` and `HDMI`.

### Home Assistant Core additional requirements

You will need to install the `websocket-client` Python package in your Home Assistant install. This will probably be done with:

```bash
pip3 install websocket-client
```

Remembering to activate your venv if you're using a venv install.

Commit message:

Update samsungtv for built-in wake on lan support (#17928)
Co-authored-by: Franck Nijhof <git@frenck.dev>

source/_integrations/samsungtv.markdown, after:

---
title: Samsung Smart TV
description: Instructions on how to integrate a Samsung Smart TV into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media Player
ha_release: 0.13
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@escoand'
ha_domain: samsungtv
ha_ssdp: true
ha_platforms:
  - media_player
---

The `samsungtv` platform allows you to control a [Samsung Smart TV](https://www.samsung.com/uk/tvs/all-tvs/).

### Setup

Go to the integrations page in your configuration and click on new integration -> Samsung TV.
If your TV is on and you have enabled [SSDP](/integrations/ssdp) discovery, it's likely that you just have to confirm the detected device.

When the TV is first connected, you will need to accept Home Assistant on the TV to allow communication.

### YAML Configuration

YAML configuration is around for people that prefer YAML.
To use this integration, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
samsungtv:
  - host: IP_ADDRESS
```

{% configuration %}
host:
  description: "The hostname or IP of the Samsung Smart TV, e.g., `192.168.0.10`."
  required: true
  type: string
name:
  description: The name you would like to give to the Samsung Smart TV.
  required: false
  type: string
turn_on_action:
  description: "Defines an [action](/docs/automation/action/) to turn the TV on."
  required: false
  type: list
{% endconfiguration %}

After saving the YAML configuration, the TV must be turned on _before_ launching Home Assistant in order for the TV to be registered the first time.

#### Wake up TV / TV does not turn on

If the integration knows the MAC address of the TV from discovery, it will attempt to wake it using wake on LAN when calling turn on. Wake on LAN must be enabled on the TV for this to work. If the TV is connected to a smart strip or requires a more complex turn-on process, a `turn_on_action` can be provided that will take precedence over the built-in wake on LAN functionality.

To wake up the TV when switched off you can use the [wake-on-lan](/integrations/wake_on_lan/) integration and call a service.

```yaml
wake_on_lan:

samsungtv:
  - host: IP_ADDRESS
    turn_on_action:
      - service: wake_on_lan.send_magic_packet
        data:
          mac: MAC_ADDRESS
```

### Usage

#### Changing channels

Changing channels can be done by calling the `media_player.play_media` service
with the following payload:

```yaml
entity_id: media_player.samsung_tv
media_content_id: 590
media_content_type: channel
```

#### Selecting a source

It's possible to switch between the 2 sources `TV` and `HDMI`.

### Home Assistant Core additional requirements

You will need to install the `websocket-client` Python package in your Home Assistant install. This will probably be done with:

```bash
pip3 install websocket-client
```

Remembering to activate your venv if you're using a venv install.
