source/_integrations/select.mqtt.markdown, before:

---
title: "MQTT Select"
description: "Instructions on how to interact with a device exposing a Select through MQTT from within Home Assistant."
ha_category:
  - Select
ha_release: 2021.7
ha_iot_class: Configurable
ha_domain: mqtt
---

The `mqtt` Select platform allows you to integrate devices that might expose configuration options through MQTT into Home Assistant as a Select. Every time a message under the `topic` in the configuration is received, the select entity will be updated in Home Assistant and vice-versa, keeping the device and Home Assistant in sync.

## Configuration

To enable MQTT Select in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
select:
    - platform: mqtt
      command_topic: topic
      name: "Test Select"
      options:
      	- "Option 1"
      	- "Option 2"
```

{% configuration %}
availability:
  description: A list of MQTT topics subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability_topic`.
  required: false
  type: list
  keys:
    payload_available:
      description: The payload that represents the available state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: online
    payload_not_available:
      description: The payload that represents the unavailable state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: offline
    topic:
      description: An MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates.
      required: true
      type: string
    value_template:
      description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract device's availability from the `topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."
      required: false
      type: template
availability_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability`.
  required: false
  type: string
availability_mode:
   description: When `availability` is configured, this controls the conditions needed to set the entity to `available`. Valid entries are `all`, `any`, and `latest`. If set to `all`, `payload_available` must be received on all configured availability topics before the entity is marked as online. If set to `any`, `payload_available` must be received on at least one configured availability topic before the entity is marked as online. If set to `latest`, the last `payload_available` or `payload_not_available` received on any configured availability topic controls the availability.
   required: false
   type: string
   default: latest
availability_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract device's availability from the `availability_topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."
  required: false
  type: template
command_template:
  description: Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to generate the payload to send to `command_topic`.
  required: false
  type: template
command_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic to publish commands to change the selected option.
  required: true
  type: string
device:
  description: "Information about the device this Select is a part of to tie it into the [device registry](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/en/device_registry_index.html). Only works through [MQTT discovery](/docs/mqtt/discovery/) and when [`unique_id`](#unique_id) is set. At least one of identifiers or connections must be present to identify the device."
  required: false
  type: map
  keys:
    configuration_url:
      description: 'A link to the webpage that can manage the configuration of this device. Can be either an HTTP or HTTPS link.'
      required: false
      type: string
    connections:
      description: 'A list of connections of the device to the outside world as a list of tuples `[connection_type, connection_identifier]`. For example the MAC address of a network interface: `"connections": ["mac", "02:5b:26:a8:dc:12"]`.'
      required: false
      type: list
    identifiers:
      description: 'A list of IDs that uniquely identify the device. For example a serial number.'
      required: false
      type: [list, string]
    manufacturer:
      description: The manufacturer of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    model:
      description: The model of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    name:
      description: The name of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    suggested_area:
      description: 'Suggest an area if the device isn’t in one yet.'
      required: false
      type: string
    sw_version:
      description: The firmware version of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    via_device:
      description: 'Identifier of a device that routes messages between this device and Home Assistant. Examples of such devices are hubs, or parent devices of a sub-device. This is used to show device topology in Home Assistant.'
      required: false
      type: string
enabled_by_default:
  description: Flag which defines if the entity should be enabled when first added.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: true
encoding:
  description: The encoding of the payloads received and published messages. Set to `""` to disable decoding of incoming payload.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: "utf-8"
entity_category:
  description: The [category](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/core/entity#generic-properties) of the entity.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: None
icon:
  description: "[Icon](/docs/configuration/customizing-devices/#icon) for the entity."
  required: false
  type: icon
json_attributes_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the JSON dictionary from messages received on the `json_attributes_topic`."
  required: false
  type: template
json_attributes_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive a JSON dictionary payload and then set as entity attributes. Implies `force_update` of the current select state when a message is received on this topic.
  required: false
  type: string
name:
  description: The name of the Select.
  required: false
  type: string
object_id:
  description: Used instead of `name` for automatic generation of `entity_id`
  required: false
  type: string
optimistic:
  description: Flag that defines if the select works in optimistic mode.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: "`true` if no `state_topic` defined, else `false`."
options:
  description: List of options that can be selected. An empty list or a list with a single item is allowed.
  required: true
  type: list
qos:
  description: The maximum QoS level of the state topic. Default is 0 and will also be used to publishing messages.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
retain:
  description: If the published message should have the retain flag on or not.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
state_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive update of the selected option.
  required: false
  type: string
unique_id:
  description: An ID that uniquely identifies this Select. If two Selects have the same unique ID Home Assistant will raise an exception.
  required: false
  type: string
value_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the value."
  required: false
  type: template
{% endconfiguration %}

<div class='note warning'>

Make sure that your topic matches exactly. `some-topic/` and `some-topic` are different topics.

</div>

Commit message:

MQTT select config to integration key (#22833)

source/_integrations/select.mqtt.markdown, after:

---
title: "MQTT Select"
description: "Instructions on how to interact with a device exposing a Select through MQTT from within Home Assistant."
ha_category:
  - Select
ha_release: 2021.7
ha_iot_class: Configurable
ha_domain: mqtt
---

The `mqtt` Select platform allows you to integrate devices that might expose configuration options through MQTT into Home Assistant as a Select. Every time a message under the `topic` in the configuration is received, the select entity will be updated in Home Assistant and vice-versa, keeping the device and Home Assistant in sync.

## Configuration

To enable MQTT Select in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
mqtt:
  select:
      - command_topic: topic
        name: "Test Select"
        options:
          - "Option 1"
          - "Option 2"
```

<a id='new_format'></a>

{% details "Previous configuration format" %}

The configuration format of manual configured MQTT items has changed.
The old format that places configurations under the `select` platform key
should no longer be used and is deprecated.

The above example shows the new and modern way,
this is the previous/old example:

```yaml
select:
    - platform: mqtt
      command_topic: topic
      name: "Test Select"
      options:
       - "Option 1"
       - "Option 2"
```

{% enddetails %}

{% configuration %}
availability:
  description: A list of MQTT topics subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability_topic`.
  required: false
  type: list
  keys:
    payload_available:
      description: The payload that represents the available state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: online
    payload_not_available:
      description: The payload that represents the unavailable state.
      required: false
      type: string
      default: offline
    topic:
      description: An MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates.
      required: true
      type: string
    value_template:
      description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract device's availability from the `topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."
      required: false
      type: template
availability_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive availability (online/offline) updates. Must not be used together with `availability`.
  required: false
  type: string
availability_mode:
   description: When `availability` is configured, this controls the conditions needed to set the entity to `available`. Valid entries are `all`, `any`, and `latest`. If set to `all`, `payload_available` must be received on all configured availability topics before the entity is marked as online. If set to `any`, `payload_available` must be received on at least one configured availability topic before the entity is marked as online. If set to `latest`, the last `payload_available` or `payload_not_available` received on any configured availability topic controls the availability.
   required: false
   type: string
   default: latest
availability_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract device's availability from the `availability_topic`. To determine the devices's availability result of this template will be compared to `payload_available` and `payload_not_available`."
  required: false
  type: template
command_template:
  description: Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to generate the payload to send to `command_topic`.
  required: false
  type: template
command_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic to publish commands to change the selected option.
  required: true
  type: string
device:
  description: "Information about the device this Select is a part of to tie it into the [device registry](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/en/device_registry_index.html). Only works through [MQTT discovery](/docs/mqtt/discovery/) and when [`unique_id`](#unique_id) is set. At least one of identifiers or connections must be present to identify the device."
  required: false
  type: map
  keys:
    configuration_url:
      description: 'A link to the webpage that can manage the configuration of this device. Can be either an HTTP or HTTPS link.'
      required: false
      type: string
    connections:
      description: 'A list of connections of the device to the outside world as a list of tuples `[connection_type, connection_identifier]`. For example the MAC address of a network interface: `"connections": ["mac", "02:5b:26:a8:dc:12"]`.'
      required: false
      type: list
    identifiers:
      description: 'A list of IDs that uniquely identify the device. For example a serial number.'
      required: false
      type: [list, string]
    manufacturer:
      description: The manufacturer of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    model:
      description: The model of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    name:
      description: The name of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    suggested_area:
      description: 'Suggest an area if the device isn’t in one yet.'
      required: false
      type: string
    sw_version:
      description: The firmware version of the device.
      required: false
      type: string
    via_device:
      description: 'Identifier of a device that routes messages between this device and Home Assistant. Examples of such devices are hubs, or parent devices of a sub-device. This is used to show device topology in Home Assistant.'
      required: false
      type: string
enabled_by_default:
  description: Flag which defines if the entity should be enabled when first added.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: true
encoding:
  description: The encoding of the payloads received and published messages. Set to `""` to disable decoding of incoming payload.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: "utf-8"
entity_category:
  description: The [category](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/core/entity#generic-properties) of the entity.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: None
icon:
  description: "[Icon](/docs/configuration/customizing-devices/#icon) for the entity."
  required: false
  type: icon
json_attributes_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the JSON dictionary from messages received on the `json_attributes_topic`."
  required: false
  type: template
json_attributes_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive a JSON dictionary payload and then set as entity attributes. Implies `force_update` of the current select state when a message is received on this topic.
  required: false
  type: string
name:
  description: The name of the Select.
  required: false
  type: string
object_id:
  description: Used instead of `name` for automatic generation of `entity_id`
  required: false
  type: string
optimistic:
  description: Flag that defines if the select works in optimistic mode.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: "`true` if no `state_topic` defined, else `false`."
options:
  description: List of options that can be selected. An empty list or a list with a single item is allowed.
  required: true
  type: list
qos:
  description: The maximum QoS level of the state topic. Default is 0 and will also be used to publishing messages.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 0
retain:
  description: If the published message should have the retain flag on or not.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
state_topic:
  description: The MQTT topic subscribed to receive update of the selected option.
  required: false
  type: string
unique_id:
  description: An ID that uniquely identifies this Select. If two Selects have the same unique ID Home Assistant will raise an exception.
  required: false
  type: string
value_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the value."
  required: false
  type: template
{% endconfiguration %}

<div class='note warning'>

Make sure that your topic matches exactly. `some-topic/` and `some-topic` are different topics.

</div>
