source/_integrations/sensor.rest.markdown, before:

---
title: "RESTful Sensor"
description: Instructions on how to integrate REST sensors into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Sensor
ha_release: 0.7.4
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_domain: rest
---

The `rest` sensor platform is consuming a given endpoint which is exposed by a [RESTful API](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) of a device, an application, or a web service. The sensor has support for GET and POST requests.

_Tip:_ If you want to create multiple `sensors` using the same endpoint, use the [RESTful](/integrations/rest) configuration instructions.

To enable this sensor, add the following lines to your `configuration.yaml` file for a GET request:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://IP_ADDRESS/ENDPOINT
```

or for a POST request:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://IP_ADDRESS/ENDPOINT
    method: POST
    payload: '{ "device" : "heater" }'
```

or a template based request:

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource_template: http://IP_ADDRESS/{{ now().strftime('%Y-%m-%d') }}
    headers:
      Authorization: >
        Bearer {{ states("input_text.my_access_token") }}
    params:
      start_date: >
        {{ (now() - timedelta(days = 1)).strftime('%Y-%m-%d') }}
```

{% endraw %}

{% configuration %}
resource:
  description: The resource or endpoint that contains the value.
  required: true
  type: string
resource_template:
  description: The resource or endpoint that contains the value with template support.
  required: true
  type: template
method:
  description: The method of the request. Either `POST` or `GET`.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: GET
name:
  description: Name of the REST sensor.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: REST Sensor
device_class:
  description: Sets the [class of the device](/integrations/sensor#device-class), changing the device state and icon that is displayed on the frontend.
  required: false
  type: string
state_class:
  description: The [state_class](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/core/entity/sensor#available-state-classes) of the sensor.
  required: false
  type: string
value_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the value."
  required: false
  type: template
payload:
  description: The payload to send with a POST request. Depends on the service, but usually formed as JSON.
  required: false
  type: string
verify_ssl:
  description: Verify the SSL certificate of the endpoint.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: True
timeout:
  description: Defines max time to wait data from the endpoint.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 10
unit_of_measurement:
  description: Defines the units of measurement of the sensor, if any.
  required: false
  type: string
authentication:
  description:  Type of the HTTP authentication. `basic` or `digest`.
  required: false
  type: string
username:
  description: The username for accessing the REST endpoint.
  required: false
  type: string
password:
  description: The password for accessing the REST endpoint.
  required: false
  type: string
headers:
  description: The headers for the requests.
  required: false
  type: [template, list]
params:
  description: The query params for the requests.
  required: false
  type: [template, list]  
json_attributes:
  description: A list of keys to extract values from a JSON dictionary result and then set as sensor attributes. If the endpoint returns XML with the "text/xml", "application/xml" or "application/xhtml+xml" content type, it will automatically be converted to JSON according to this [specification](https://www.xml.com/pub/a/2006/05/31/converting-between-xml-and-json.html)
  required: false
  type: [string, list]
json_attributes_path:
  description: A [JSONPath](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) that references the location of the `json_attributes` in the JSON content.
  required: false
  type: string
force_update:
  description: Sends update events even if the value hasn't changed. Useful if you want to have meaningful value graphs in history.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
{% endconfiguration %}

<div class='note'>

Use either `resource` or `resource_template`.

</div>

`curl` can help you identify the variable you want to display in your Home Assistant frontend. The example below shows the JSON response of a device that is running with [aREST](https://arest.io/).

```bash
$ curl -X GET http://192.168.1.31/temperature/
{"temperature": 77, "id": "sensor02", "name": "livingroom", "connected": true}
```

The response is expected to be a dictionary or a list with a dictionary as its 0th element.

## Examples

In this section you find some real-life examples of how to use this sensor.

### External IP address

You can find your external IP address using the service [JSON Test](https://www.jsontest.com/) at their [http://ip.jsontest.com/](http://ip.jsontest.com/) URL.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://ip.jsontest.com
    name: External IP
    value_template: "{{ value_json.ip }}"
```

{% endraw %}

### Single value from a local Glances instance

The [glances](/integrations/glances) sensor is doing the exact same thing for all exposed values.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://IP_ADRRESS:61208/api/2/mem/used
    name: Used mem
    value_template: "{{ value_json.used| multiply(0.000000954) | round(0) }}"
    unit_of_measurement: MB
```

{% endraw %}

### Value from another Home Assistant instance

The Home Assistant [API](/developers/rest_api/) exposes the data from your attached sensors. If you are running multiple Home Assistant instances which are not connected you can still get information from them.

If the Home Assistant instance in the resource variable is protected by an API password, you can append `?api_password=YOUR_PASSWORD` to the resource URL to authenticate or use `headers:`.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://IP_ADDRESS:8123/api/states/sensor.weather_temperature
    name: Temperature
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state }}"
    unit_of_measurement: "°C"
```

{% endraw %}

### Accessing an HTTP authentication protected endpoint

The REST sensor supports HTTP authentication and customized headers.

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://IP_ADDRESS:5000/sensor
    username: ha1
    password: test1
    authentication: basic
    headers:
      User-Agent: Home Assistant
      Content-Type: application/json
```

The headers will contain all relevant details. This will also give you the ability to access endpoints that are protected by tokens.

```bash
Content-Length: 1024
Host: IP_ADDRESS1:5000
Authorization: Basic aGExOnRlc3Qx
Accept-Encoding: identity
Content-Type: application/json
User-Agent: Home Assistant
```

If you are accessing a resource protected by a `Bearer` token in an `Authorization` header, you can either put the token in the header field of the sensor configuration (not recommended) or store the token in your [`secrets.yaml`](/docs/configuration/secrets/) file. In that case, be sure to include the word `Bearer` in the `secrets` file.

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://IP_ADDRESS:5000/sensor
    headers:
      Authorization: !secret my_sensor_secret_token
```

Example entry for the `secrets.yaml` file:

```yaml
my_sensor_secret_token: Bearer gh_DHQIXKVf6Pr4H8Yqz8uhApk_mnV6Zje6Pr4H8Yqz8A8nCxz6SBghQdS51
```

### Use GitHub to get the latest release of Home Assistant

This sample is very similar to the [`updater`](/integrations/updater/) integration but the information is received from GitHub.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: https://api.github.com/repos/home-assistant/home-assistant/releases/latest
    username: YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME
    password: YOUR_GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN
    authentication: basic
    value_template: "{{ value_json.tag_name }}"
    headers:
      Accept: application/vnd.github.v3+json
      Content-Type: application/json
      User-Agent: Home Assistant REST sensor
```

{% endraw %}

### Fetch multiple JSON attributes and present them as values

[JSON Test](https://www.jsontest.com/) returns the current time, date and milliseconds since epoch from [http://date.jsontest.com/](http://date.jsontest.com/).

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    name: JSON time
    json_attributes:
      - date
      - milliseconds_since_epoch
    resource: http://date.jsontest.com/
    value_template: "{{ value_json.time }}"
  - platform: template
    sensors:
      date:
        friendly_name: "Date"
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.json_time', 'date') }}"
      milliseconds:
        friendly_name: "milliseconds"
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.json_time', 'milliseconds_since_epoch') }}"
```

{% endraw %}

[JSONPlaceholder](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/) provides sample JSON data for testing. In the below example, JSONPath locates the attributes in the JSON document. [JSONPath Online Evaluator](https://jsonpath.com/) provides a tool to test your JSONPath. If the endpoint returns XML, it will be converted to JSON using `xmltodict` before searching for attributes. You may find the [XMLtoDict debug tool](https://xmltodict-debugger.glitch.me/) helpful for testing how your XML converts to JSON.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    name: JSON users
    json_attributes_path: "$.[0].address"
    json_attributes:
      - street
      - suite
      - city
      - zipcode
    resource: https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users
    value_template: "{{ value_json[0].name }}"
```

{% endraw %}

This sample fetches a weather report from [OpenWeatherMap](https://openweathermap.org/), maps the resulting data into attributes of the RESTful sensor and then creates a set of [template](/integrations/template) sensors that monitor the attributes and present the values in a usable form.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    name: OWM_report
    json_attributes:
      - main
      - weather
    value_template: "{{ value_json['weather'][0]['description'].title() }}"
    resource: https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather?zip=80302,us&APPID=VERYSECRETAPIKEY
  - platform: template
    sensors:
      owm_weather:
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.owm_report', 'weather')[0]['description'].title() }}"
        entity_picture_template: "{{ 'https://openweathermap.org/img/w/' + state_attr('sensor.owm_report', 'weather')[0]['icon'].lower() + '.png' }}"
        entity_id: sensor.owm_report
      owm_temp:
        friendly_name: "Outside temp"
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.owm_report', 'main')['temp'] - 273.15 }}"
        unit_of_measurement: "°C"
        entity_id: sensor.owm_report
      owm_pressure:
        friendly_name: "Outside pressure"
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.owm_report', 'main')['pressure'] }}"
        unit_of_measurement: "hP"
        entity_id: sensor.owm_report
      owm_humidity:
        friendly_name: "Outside humidity"
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.owm_report', 'main')['humidity'] }}"
        unit_of_measurement: "%"
        entity_id: sensor.owm_report
```

{% endraw %}

This configuration shows how to extract multiple values from a dictionary with `json_attributes` and `template`. This avoids flooding the REST service by only requesting the result once, then creating multiple attributes from that single result using templates. By default, the sensor state would be set to the full JSON — here, that would exceed the 255-character maximum allowed length for the state, so we override that default by using `value_template` to set a static value of `OK`.

{% raw %}

```json
{
    "bedroom1": {
        "temperature": 15.79,
        "humidity": 55.78,
        "battery": 5.26,
        "timestamp": "2019-02-27T22:21:37Z"
    },
    "bedroom2": {
        "temperature": 18.99,
        "humidity": 49.81,
        "battery": 5.08,
        "timestamp": "2019-02-27T22:23:44Z"
    },
    "bedroom3": {
        "temperature": 18.58,
        "humidity": 47.95,
        "battery": 5.15,
        "timestamp": "2019-02-27T22:21:22Z"
    }
}
```

{% endraw %}

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    name: room_sensors
    resource: http://<address_to_rest_service>
    json_attributes:
      - bedroom1
      - bedroom2
      - bedroom3
    value_template: "OK"
  - platform: template
    sensors:
      bedroom1_temperature:
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.room_sensors', 'bedroom1')['temperature'] }}"
        device_class: temperature
        unit_of_measurement: "°C"
      bedroom1_humidity:
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.room_sensors', 'bedroom1')['humidity'] }}"
        device_class: humidity
        unit_of_measurement: "%"
      bedroom1_battery:
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.room_sensors', 'bedroom1')['battery'] }}"
        device_class: battery
        unit_of_measurement: "V"
      bedroom2_temperature:
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.room_sensors', 'bedroom2')['temperature'] }}"
        device_class: temperature
        unit_of_measurement: "°C"
```

{% endraw %}

The below example allows shows how to extract multiple values from a dictionary with `json_attributes` and `json_attributes_path` from the XML of a Steamist Steambath Wi-Fi interface and use them to create a switch and multiple sensors without having to poll the endpoint numerous times.

In the below example `json_attributes_path` is set to `$.response` which is the location of the `usr0`, `pot0`, ... attributes used for `json_attributes`.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
# Steam Controller
  - platform: rest
    name: Steam System Data
    resource: http://192.168.1.105/status.xml
    json_attributes_path: "$.response"
    scan_interval: 15
    value_template: "OK"
    json_attributes:
      - "usr0"
      - "pot0"
      - "temp0"
      - "time0"
  - platform: template
    sensors:
       steam_temp:
        friendly_name: Steam Temp
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.steam_system_data', 'temp0') | regex_findall_index('([0-9]+)XF') }}"
        unit_of_measurement: "°F"
       steam_time_remaining:
        friendly_name: "Steam Time Remaining"
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.steam_system_data', 'time0') }}"
        unit_of_measurement: "minutes"

switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      steam:
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.steam_system_data', 'usr0') | int >= 1 }}"
        turn_on:
          - service: rest_command.set_steam_led
            data:
               led: 6
          - service: homeassistant.update_entity
            target:
               entity_id: sensor.steam_system_data
          - delay: 00:00:15
          - service: homeassistant.update_entity
            target:
               entity_id: sensor.steam_system_data
        turn_off:
          - service: rest_command.set_steam_led
            data:
               led: 7
          - service: homeassistant.update_entity
            target:
               entity_id: sensor.steam_system_data
          - delay: 00:00:15
          - service: homeassistant.update_entity
            target:
               entity_id: sensor.steam_system_data
        friendly_name: Steam

rest_command:  
  set_steam_led:
    url: http://192.168.1.105/leds.cgi?led={{ led }}
```

{% endraw %}

For reference, the XML content of endpoint shown above example is below:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

 <response>
 	<scan>0</scan>
	<ver>12556</ver>
	<count>48</count>
	<ssid>alexander</ssid>
	<bss>
		<valid>0</valid>
		<name>0</name>
		<privacy>0</privacy>
		<wlan>0</wlan>
		<strength>0</strength>
	</bss>
	<led0>0</led0>
	<led1>0</led1>
	<led2>0</led2>
	<led3>0</led3>
	<led4>0</led4>
	<led5>0</led5>
	<led6>0</led6>
	<led7>0</led7>
	<btn0>up</btn0>
	<btn1>up</btn1>
	<btn2>up</btn2>
	<btn3>up</btn3>
	<pot0>0</pot0>
	<usr0>0</usr0>
	<temp0>0x73XF0x73XF</temp0>
	<time0> 0</time0>
 </response>
```

Commit message:

Update docs for REST sensor to include 'raw' attribute.

source/_integrations/sensor.rest.markdown, after:

---
title: "RESTful Sensor"
description: Instructions on how to integrate REST sensors into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Sensor
ha_release: 0.7.4
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_domain: rest
---

The `rest` sensor platform is consuming a given endpoint which is exposed by a [RESTful API](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) of a device, an application, or a web service. The sensor has support for GET and POST requests.

_Tip:_ If you want to create multiple `sensors` using the same endpoint, use the [RESTful](/integrations/rest) configuration instructions.

To enable this sensor, add the following lines to your `configuration.yaml` file for a GET request:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://IP_ADDRESS/ENDPOINT
```

or for a POST request:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://IP_ADDRESS/ENDPOINT
    method: POST
    payload: '{ "device" : "heater" }'
```

or a template based request:

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource_template: http://IP_ADDRESS/{{ now().strftime('%Y-%m-%d') }}
    headers:
      Authorization: >
        Bearer {{ states("input_text.my_access_token") }}
    params:
      start_date: >
        {{ (now() - timedelta(days = 1)).strftime('%Y-%m-%d') }}
```

{% endraw %}

{% configuration %}
resource:
  description: The resource or endpoint that contains the value.
  required: true
  type: string
resource_template:
  description: The resource or endpoint that contains the value with template support.
  required: true
  type: template
method:
  description: The method of the request. Either `POST` or `GET`.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: GET
name:
  description: Name of the REST sensor.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: REST Sensor
device_class:
  description: Sets the [class of the device](/integrations/sensor#device-class), changing the device state and icon that is displayed on the frontend.
  required: false
  type: string
state_class:
  description: The [state_class](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/core/entity/sensor#available-state-classes) of the sensor.
  required: false
  type: string
value_template:
  description: "Defines a [template](/docs/configuration/templating/#processing-incoming-data) to extract the value."
  required: false
  type: template
payload:
  description: The payload to send with a POST request. Depends on the service, but usually formed as JSON.
  required: false
  type: string
verify_ssl:
  description: Verify the SSL certificate of the endpoint.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: True
timeout:
  description: Defines max time to wait data from the endpoint.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 10
unit_of_measurement:
  description: Defines the units of measurement of the sensor, if any.
  required: false
  type: string
authentication:
  description:  Type of the HTTP authentication. `basic` or `digest`.
  required: false
  type: string
username:
  description: The username for accessing the REST endpoint.
  required: false
  type: string
password:
  description: The password for accessing the REST endpoint.
  required: false
  type: string
headers:
  description: The headers for the requests.
  required: false
  type: [template, list]
params:
  description: The query params for the requests.
  required: false
  type: [template, list]  
json_attributes:
  description: A list of keys to extract values from a JSON dictionary result and then set as sensor attributes. If the endpoint returns XML with the "text/xml", "application/xml" or "application/xhtml+xml" content type, it will automatically be converted to JSON according to this [specification](https://www.xml.com/pub/a/2006/05/31/converting-between-xml-and-json.html)
  required: false
  type: [string, list]
json_attributes_path:
  description: A [JSONPath](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) that references the location of the `json_attributes` in the JSON content.
  required: false
  type: string
include_raw_attribute:
  description: Add 'raw' attribute to the sensor that contains the raw JSON response resulting from the API call. This is usefull either for debugging, or when the values contained in the respons do not neatly map to separate attributes.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
force_update:
  description: Sends update events even if the value hasn't changed. Useful if you want to have meaningful value graphs in history.
  required: false
  type: boolean
  default: false
{% endconfiguration %}

<div class='note'>

Use either `resource` or `resource_template`.

</div>

`curl` can help you identify the variable you want to display in your Home Assistant frontend. The example below shows the JSON response of a device that is running with [aREST](https://arest.io/).

```bash
$ curl -X GET http://192.168.1.31/temperature/
{"temperature": 77, "id": "sensor02", "name": "livingroom", "connected": true}
```

The response is expected to be a dictionary or a list with a dictionary as its 0th element.

## Examples

In this section you find some real-life examples of how to use this sensor.

### External IP address

You can find your external IP address using the service [JSON Test](https://www.jsontest.com/) at their [http://ip.jsontest.com/](http://ip.jsontest.com/) URL.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://ip.jsontest.com
    name: External IP
    value_template: "{{ value_json.ip }}"
```

{% endraw %}

### Single value from a local Glances instance

The [glances](/integrations/glances) sensor is doing the exact same thing for all exposed values.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://IP_ADRRESS:61208/api/2/mem/used
    name: Used mem
    value_template: "{{ value_json.used| multiply(0.000000954) | round(0) }}"
    unit_of_measurement: MB
```

{% endraw %}

### Value from another Home Assistant instance

The Home Assistant [API](/developers/rest_api/) exposes the data from your attached sensors. If you are running multiple Home Assistant instances which are not connected you can still get information from them.

If the Home Assistant instance in the resource variable is protected by an API password, you can append `?api_password=YOUR_PASSWORD` to the resource URL to authenticate or use `headers:`.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://IP_ADDRESS:8123/api/states/sensor.weather_temperature
    name: Temperature
    value_template: "{{ value_json.state }}"
    unit_of_measurement: "°C"
```

{% endraw %}

### Accessing an HTTP authentication protected endpoint

The REST sensor supports HTTP authentication and customized headers.

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://IP_ADDRESS:5000/sensor
    username: ha1
    password: test1
    authentication: basic
    headers:
      User-Agent: Home Assistant
      Content-Type: application/json
```

The headers will contain all relevant details. This will also give you the ability to access endpoints that are protected by tokens.

```bash
Content-Length: 1024
Host: IP_ADDRESS1:5000
Authorization: Basic aGExOnRlc3Qx
Accept-Encoding: identity
Content-Type: application/json
User-Agent: Home Assistant
```

If you are accessing a resource protected by a `Bearer` token in an `Authorization` header, you can either put the token in the header field of the sensor configuration (not recommended) or store the token in your [`secrets.yaml`](/docs/configuration/secrets/) file. In that case, be sure to include the word `Bearer` in the `secrets` file.

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: http://IP_ADDRESS:5000/sensor
    headers:
      Authorization: !secret my_sensor_secret_token
```

Example entry for the `secrets.yaml` file:

```yaml
my_sensor_secret_token: Bearer gh_DHQIXKVf6Pr4H8Yqz8uhApk_mnV6Zje6Pr4H8Yqz8A8nCxz6SBghQdS51
```

### Use GitHub to get the latest release of Home Assistant

This sample is very similar to the [`updater`](/integrations/updater/) integration but the information is received from GitHub.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    resource: https://api.github.com/repos/home-assistant/home-assistant/releases/latest
    username: YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME
    password: YOUR_GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN
    authentication: basic
    value_template: "{{ value_json.tag_name }}"
    headers:
      Accept: application/vnd.github.v3+json
      Content-Type: application/json
      User-Agent: Home Assistant REST sensor
```

{% endraw %}

### Fetch multiple JSON attributes and present them as values

[JSON Test](https://www.jsontest.com/) returns the current time, date and milliseconds since epoch from [http://date.jsontest.com/](http://date.jsontest.com/).

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    name: JSON time
    json_attributes:
      - date
      - milliseconds_since_epoch
    resource: http://date.jsontest.com/
    value_template: "{{ value_json.time }}"
  - platform: template
    sensors:
      date:
        friendly_name: "Date"
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.json_time', 'date') }}"
      milliseconds:
        friendly_name: "milliseconds"
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.json_time', 'milliseconds_since_epoch') }}"
```

{% endraw %}

[JSONPlaceholder](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/) provides sample JSON data for testing. In the below example, JSONPath locates the attributes in the JSON document. [JSONPath Online Evaluator](https://jsonpath.com/) provides a tool to test your JSONPath. If the endpoint returns XML, it will be converted to JSON using `xmltodict` before searching for attributes. You may find the [XMLtoDict debug tool](https://xmltodict-debugger.glitch.me/) helpful for testing how your XML converts to JSON.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    name: JSON users
    json_attributes_path: "$.[0].address"
    json_attributes:
      - street
      - suite
      - city
      - zipcode
    resource: https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users
    value_template: "{{ value_json[0].name }}"
```

{% endraw %}

This sample fetches a weather report from [OpenWeatherMap](https://openweathermap.org/), maps the resulting data into attributes of the RESTful sensor and then creates a set of [template](/integrations/template) sensors that monitor the attributes and present the values in a usable form.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    name: OWM_report
    json_attributes:
      - main
      - weather
    value_template: "{{ value_json['weather'][0]['description'].title() }}"
    resource: https://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/weather?zip=80302,us&APPID=VERYSECRETAPIKEY
  - platform: template
    sensors:
      owm_weather:
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.owm_report', 'weather')[0]['description'].title() }}"
        entity_picture_template: "{{ 'https://openweathermap.org/img/w/' + state_attr('sensor.owm_report', 'weather')[0]['icon'].lower() + '.png' }}"
        entity_id: sensor.owm_report
      owm_temp:
        friendly_name: "Outside temp"
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.owm_report', 'main')['temp'] - 273.15 }}"
        unit_of_measurement: "°C"
        entity_id: sensor.owm_report
      owm_pressure:
        friendly_name: "Outside pressure"
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.owm_report', 'main')['pressure'] }}"
        unit_of_measurement: "hP"
        entity_id: sensor.owm_report
      owm_humidity:
        friendly_name: "Outside humidity"
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.owm_report', 'main')['humidity'] }}"
        unit_of_measurement: "%"
        entity_id: sensor.owm_report
```

{% endraw %}

This configuration shows how to extract multiple values from a dictionary with `json_attributes` and `template`. This avoids flooding the REST service by only requesting the result once, then creating multiple attributes from that single result using templates. By default, the sensor state would be set to the full JSON — here, that would exceed the 255-character maximum allowed length for the state, so we override that default by using `value_template` to set a static value of `OK`.

{% raw %}

```json
{
    "bedroom1": {
        "temperature": 15.79,
        "humidity": 55.78,
        "battery": 5.26,
        "timestamp": "2019-02-27T22:21:37Z"
    },
    "bedroom2": {
        "temperature": 18.99,
        "humidity": 49.81,
        "battery": 5.08,
        "timestamp": "2019-02-27T22:23:44Z"
    },
    "bedroom3": {
        "temperature": 18.58,
        "humidity": 47.95,
        "battery": 5.15,
        "timestamp": "2019-02-27T22:21:22Z"
    }
}
```

{% endraw %}

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: rest
    name: room_sensors
    resource: http://<address_to_rest_service>
    json_attributes:
      - bedroom1
      - bedroom2
      - bedroom3
    value_template: "OK"
  - platform: template
    sensors:
      bedroom1_temperature:
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.room_sensors', 'bedroom1')['temperature'] }}"
        device_class: temperature
        unit_of_measurement: "°C"
      bedroom1_humidity:
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.room_sensors', 'bedroom1')['humidity'] }}"
        device_class: humidity
        unit_of_measurement: "%"
      bedroom1_battery:
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.room_sensors', 'bedroom1')['battery'] }}"
        device_class: battery
        unit_of_measurement: "V"
      bedroom2_temperature:
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.room_sensors', 'bedroom2')['temperature'] }}"
        device_class: temperature
        unit_of_measurement: "°C"
```

{% endraw %}

The below example allows shows how to extract multiple values from a dictionary with `json_attributes` and `json_attributes_path` from the XML of a Steamist Steambath Wi-Fi interface and use them to create a switch and multiple sensors without having to poll the endpoint numerous times.

In the below example `json_attributes_path` is set to `$.response` which is the location of the `usr0`, `pot0`, ... attributes used for `json_attributes`.

{% raw %}

```yaml
sensor:
# Steam Controller
  - platform: rest
    name: Steam System Data
    resource: http://192.168.1.105/status.xml
    json_attributes_path: "$.response"
    scan_interval: 15
    value_template: "OK"
    json_attributes:
      - "usr0"
      - "pot0"
      - "temp0"
      - "time0"
  - platform: template
    sensors:
       steam_temp:
        friendly_name: Steam Temp
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.steam_system_data', 'temp0') | regex_findall_index('([0-9]+)XF') }}"
        unit_of_measurement: "°F"
       steam_time_remaining:
        friendly_name: "Steam Time Remaining"
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.steam_system_data', 'time0') }}"
        unit_of_measurement: "minutes"

switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      steam:
        value_template: "{{ state_attr('sensor.steam_system_data', 'usr0') | int >= 1 }}"
        turn_on:
          - service: rest_command.set_steam_led
            data:
               led: 6
          - service: homeassistant.update_entity
            target:
               entity_id: sensor.steam_system_data
          - delay: 00:00:15
          - service: homeassistant.update_entity
            target:
               entity_id: sensor.steam_system_data
        turn_off:
          - service: rest_command.set_steam_led
            data:
               led: 7
          - service: homeassistant.update_entity
            target:
               entity_id: sensor.steam_system_data
          - delay: 00:00:15
          - service: homeassistant.update_entity
            target:
               entity_id: sensor.steam_system_data
        friendly_name: Steam

rest_command:  
  set_steam_led:
    url: http://192.168.1.105/leds.cgi?led={{ led }}
```

{% endraw %}

For reference, the XML content of endpoint shown above example is below:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

 <response>
 	<scan>0</scan>
	<ver>12556</ver>
	<count>48</count>
	<ssid>alexander</ssid>
	<bss>
		<valid>0</valid>
		<name>0</name>
		<privacy>0</privacy>
		<wlan>0</wlan>
		<strength>0</strength>
	</bss>
	<led0>0</led0>
	<led1>0</led1>
	<led2>0</led2>
	<led3>0</led3>
	<led4>0</led4>
	<led5>0</led5>
	<led6>0</led6>
	<led7>0</led7>
	<btn0>up</btn0>
	<btn1>up</btn1>
	<btn2>up</btn2>
	<btn3>up</btn3>
	<pot0>0</pot0>
	<usr0>0</usr0>
	<temp0>0x73XF0x73XF</temp0>
	<time0> 0</time0>
 </response>
```
