source/_integrations/shelly.markdown, before:

---
title: Shelly
description: Integrate Shelly devices
ha_category:
  - Binary Sensor
  - Cover
  - Light
  - Sensor
  - Switch
ha_release: 0.115
ha_codeowners:
  - '@balloob'
  - '@bieniu'
  - '@thecode'
  - '@chemelli74'
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_domain: shelly
featured: true
ha_config_flow: true
ha_zeroconf: true
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - cover
  - light
  - sensor
  - switch
---

Integrate [Shelly devices](https://shelly.cloud) into Home Assistant.

<div class="note">
Integration is communicating directly with the device; cloud connection is not needed.
</div>

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Entity naming

The integration uses the following strategy to name its entities:

- If `Device Name` or `Channel Name` is set in the device, the integration will use them to generate the entities' name.
- If channel names are set, they will be used in the entity names. The device name will not be used.
- If only the device name is set, and the device has multiple channels, the channel number will be appended to the entity name (e.g., Channel 2).
- In case device name and channel names are not set, the entity name will be generated by the `Device Type`, `Device ID` and `Channel Number`.

Examples:

| Device Name | Channel Name   | Entity Name                     |
| ----------- | -------------- | --------------------------------|
| `Not set`   |	`Not Set`	     | shellyswitch25-ABC123 Channel 1 |
| `Not set`	  | Kids Room Bulb | Kids Room Bulb                  |
| Kitchen     |	`Not Set`	     | Kitchen Channel 1               |
| Bedroom	    | Round Bulb     | Round Bulb                      |

Names are set from the device web page:

- Device name can be set in **Settings** >> **DEVICE NAME**
- Channel name for single-channel devices can be set in **Settings** >> **CHANNEL NAME**
- Channel name for multi-channel devices can be set in **Settings** >> **CHANNEL NAME** after selecting the channel, by clicking on the channel name.

## Appliance type

Shelly device relays are added to the Home Assistant by default as `switch` entities. A relay can be added as a `light` entity if the device uses firmware version 1.9.0 or newer and the **Settings** >> **APPLIANCE TYPE** value is set to `light`.

## Events

If the **BUTTON TYPE** of the switch connected to the device is set to `momentary` or `detached switch`, integration fires events when the switch is used. You can use these events in your automations.

### Automation examples

```yaml
- alias: "Toggle living room light"
  trigger:
    platform: event
    event_type: shelly.click
    event_data:
      device: shellyswitch25-AABBCC
      channel: 1
      click_type: single
  action:
    service: light.toggle
    target:
      entity_id: light.living_room

- alias: "Toggle living room lamp"
  trigger:
    platform: event
    event_type: shelly.click
    event_data:
      device: shellyswitch25-AABBCC
      channel: 2
      click_type: long
  action:
    service: light.toggle
    target:
      entity_id: light.lamp_living_room
```

### Possible values for `click_type`

| Shelly input event | Click Type    |
| ------------------ | --------------|
| `S`                | `single`      |
| `SS`	             | `double`      |
| `SSS`              | `triple`      |
| `L`	               | `long`        |
| `SL`	             | `single_long` |
| `LS`	             | `long_single` |

<div class="note">

Not all devices support all input events. You can check on [Shelly API Reference](https://shelly-api-docs.shelly.cloud/) website what types of Shelly input events your device supports.

</div>

## Known issues and limitations

- Only supports firmware 1.8 and later
- Before set up, battery-powered devices must be woken up by pressing the button on the device.

Commit message:

Add information about CoIoT/unicast

source/_integrations/shelly.markdown, after:

---
title: Shelly
description: Integrate Shelly devices
ha_category:
  - Binary Sensor
  - Cover
  - Light
  - Sensor
  - Switch
ha_release: 0.115
ha_codeowners:
  - '@balloob'
  - '@bieniu'
  - '@thecode'
  - '@chemelli74'
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_domain: shelly
featured: true
ha_config_flow: true
ha_zeroconf: true
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - cover
  - light
  - sensor
  - switch
---

Integrate [Shelly devices](https://shelly.cloud) into Home Assistant.

## Shelly device configuration

Shelly devices use the `CoIoT` protocol to communicate with integration. For Shelly firmware 1.10.0 or newer, `CoIoT` must be enabled in the device settings. Navigate to local IP address of your Shelly device, **Internet & Security** >> **ADVANCED - DEVELOPER SETTINGS** and check the box **Enable CoIoT**.
We recommend using `unicast` for communication. To enable this, enter the local IP address of the Home Assistant server and port 5683 into the **CoIoT peer** field and push **SAVE** button. This is mandatory for Shelly Motion.

<div class="note">
Integration is communicating directly with the device; cloud connection is not needed.
</div>

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Entity naming

The integration uses the following strategy to name its entities:

- If `Device Name` or `Channel Name` is set in the device, the integration will use them to generate the entities' name.
- If channel names are set, they will be used in the entity names. The device name will not be used.
- If only the device name is set, and the device has multiple channels, the channel number will be appended to the entity name (e.g., Channel 2).
- In case device name and channel names are not set, the entity name will be generated by the `Device Type`, `Device ID` and `Channel Number`.

Examples:

| Device Name | Channel Name   | Entity Name                     |
| ----------- | -------------- | --------------------------------|
| `Not set`   |	`Not Set`	     | shellyswitch25-ABC123 Channel 1 |
| `Not set`	  | Kids Room Bulb | Kids Room Bulb                  |
| Kitchen     |	`Not Set`	     | Kitchen Channel 1               |
| Bedroom	    | Round Bulb     | Round Bulb                      |

Names are set from the device web page:

- Device name can be set in **Settings** >> **DEVICE NAME**
- Channel name for single-channel devices can be set in **Settings** >> **CHANNEL NAME**
- Channel name for multi-channel devices can be set in **Settings** >> **CHANNEL NAME** after selecting the channel, by clicking on the channel name.

## Appliance type

Shelly device relays are added to the Home Assistant by default as `switch` entities. A relay can be added as a `light` entity if the device uses firmware version 1.9.0 or newer and the **Settings** >> **APPLIANCE TYPE** value is set to `light`.

## Events

If the **BUTTON TYPE** of the switch connected to the device is set to `momentary` or `detached switch`, integration fires events when the switch is used. You can use these events in your automations.

### Automation examples

```yaml
- alias: "Toggle living room light"
  trigger:
    platform: event
    event_type: shelly.click
    event_data:
      device: shellyswitch25-AABBCC
      channel: 1
      click_type: single
  action:
    service: light.toggle
    target:
      entity_id: light.living_room

- alias: "Toggle living room lamp"
  trigger:
    platform: event
    event_type: shelly.click
    event_data:
      device: shellyswitch25-AABBCC
      channel: 2
      click_type: long
  action:
    service: light.toggle
    target:
      entity_id: light.lamp_living_room
```

### Possible values for `click_type`

| Shelly input event | Click Type    |
| ------------------ | --------------|
| `S`                | `single`      |
| `SS`	             | `double`      |
| `SSS`              | `triple`      |
| `L`	               | `long`        |
| `SL`	             | `single_long` |
| `LS`	             | `long_single` |

<div class="note">

Not all devices support all input events. You can check on [Shelly API Reference](https://shelly-api-docs.shelly.cloud/) website what types of Shelly input events your device supports.

</div>

## Known issues and limitations

- Only supports firmware 1.8 and later
- Before set up, battery-powered devices must be woken up by pressing the button on the device.
