source/_integrations/sms.markdown, before:

---
title: SMS notifications via GSM-modem
description: SMS notification via GSM modem.
icon: gammu.png
ha_category:
  - Notifications
ha_release: 0.105
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@ocalvo'
ha_domain: sms
ha_platforms:
  - notify
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `sms` integration allows having a local execution SMS notification via [Gammu](https://wammu.eu/gammu/). This is ideal when the internet is offline or when the power goes out.

This integration provides the following platforms:

- Notify

## Configuration

Activate `SMS` via the integrations menu and search for `SMS`.
While activating the integration, it will ask for your serial device. Make sure the device is connected and have a valid SIM activated.

You can also enable `SMS` via your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sms:
  device: /dev/ttyUSB2
```

To configure the notification service, edit your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
notify:
  - platform: sms
    name: sms_person1
    recipient: PHONE_NUMBER
  - platform: sms
    name: sms_person2
    recipient: PHONE_NUMBER
```

{% configuration %}
device:
  description: The gsm modem device.
  required: true
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

## Notifications

You can also receive SMS messages that are sent to the SIM card number in your device.
Every time there is a message received, `event: sms.incoming_sms` is fired with date, phone number and text message.

To use notifications, please see the [getting started with automation page](/getting-started/automation/).

If the integration is used with the Home Assistant Operating System, then version [3.6](https://github.com/home-assistant/hassos/releases/tag/3.6) or higher is required.

For installations not running on Home Assistant or Home Assistant Core using Docker, you must install `gammu-dev` package:

```bash
sudo apt-get install libgammu-dev
```

Before running for the first time, check that the system recognizes the modem by running:

```bash
ls -l /dev/*USB*
```

Note: When running Home Assistant, you need to install the SSH add-on.

## Required Hardware

You will need a USB GSM stick modem or device like SIM800L v2 connected via USB UART.

### List of modems known to work

- [Huawei E3372-510](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01N6P3HI2/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1)(
Need to unlock it using [this guide](http://blog.asiantuntijakaveri.fi/2015/07/convert-huawei-e3372h-153-from.html))
- [Huawei E3531](https://www.amazon.com/Modem-Huawei-Unlocked-Caribbean-Desbloqueado/dp/B011YZZ6Q2/ref=sr_1_1?keywords=Huawei+E3531&qid=1581447800&sr=8-1)
- [Huawei E3272](https://www.amazon.com/Huawei-E3272s-506-Unlocked-Americas-Europe/dp/B00HBL51OQ)
- [SIM800C](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B087Z6F953/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1)
- ZTE K3565-Z

### List of modems known to NOT work

- No known modems

### List of modems that may work

Search in the [Gammu database](https://wammu.eu/phones/) for modems with AT connection.

### Huawei/ZTE modems (and similar) devices

For some unknown reason, the rule that converts these modems from storage devices into serial devices may not run automatically. To work around this problem, follow the procedure below to change the modem mode and (optionally) create `udev` rule on a configuration USB stick for the device to switch to serial mode persistently.

1. Install the `usb_modeswitch` software to switch the modem operational mode (for Debian/Ubuntu distros):

```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install usb-modeswitch -y
```

2. Run `lsusb`, its output should be similar to this:

```bash
bus 000 device 001: ID 1FFF:342a
bus 001 device 005: ID 12d1:15ca   <-------- Huawei is usually 12d1
bus 000 device 002: ID 2354:5352
bus 000 device 002: ID 1232:15ca
```

Identify the brand for your GSM modem, copy the `brand_Id` and `product_id` (In this case `brand_id = 12d1` and `product_Id = 15ca`)

3. Try disabling virtual cd-rom and change work mode to "only modem": 

```bash
sudo /sbin/usb_modeswitch -X -v 12d1 -p 15ca
```
Re-plug the device. After this the modem correct should work without the following 'udev' rule.

4. (Optional) Configure the udev rule to persist the correct modem configuration even after disconnecting it:

Set this content in file `udev\10-gsm-modem.rules` in the [configuration USB](https://github.com/home-assistant/operating-system/blob/master/Documentation/configuration.md#automatic):
(Replace `brand_Id` and `product_id` for the numbers reported by `lsusb`)

```bash
ACTION=="add" \
, ATTRS{idVendor}=="brand_Id" \
, ATTRS{idProduct}=="product_Id" \
, RUN+="/sbin/usb_modeswitch -X -v brand_Id -p product_Id"
```

Here is a sample configuration file:

```bash
ACTION=="add" \
, ATTRS{idVendor}=="12d1" \
, ATTRS{idProduct}=="15ca" \
, RUN+="/sbin/usb_modeswitch -X -v 12d1 -p 15ca"
```

Re-plug the USB stick, reboot the device, run `lsusb` again.
The resulting product id now should be different and the brand id should be the same.
And `ls -l /dev/*USB*` should now report your device.

If the device is still not recognized, remove the parameter -X from the usb_modeswitch command and reboot again.

## More details:

- [Original thread discussion](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/send-sms-with-usb-gsm-modem-when-alarm-triggered/28942/38)

Commit message:

Not applicable for users of Home Assistant OS, Container or Supervised.

source/_integrations/sms.markdown, after:

---
title: SMS notifications via GSM-modem
description: SMS notification via GSM modem.
icon: gammu.png
ha_category:
  - Notifications
ha_release: 0.105
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@ocalvo'
ha_domain: sms
ha_platforms:
  - notify
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `sms` integration allows having a local execution SMS notification via [Gammu](https://wammu.eu/gammu/). This is ideal when the internet is offline or when the power goes out.

This integration provides the following platforms:

- Notify

## Configuration

Activate `SMS` via the integrations menu and search for `SMS`.
While activating the integration, it will ask for your serial device. Make sure the device is connected and have a valid SIM activated.

You can also enable `SMS` via your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sms:
  device: /dev/ttyUSB2
```

To configure the notification service, edit your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
notify:
  - platform: sms
    name: sms_person1
    recipient: PHONE_NUMBER
  - platform: sms
    name: sms_person2
    recipient: PHONE_NUMBER
```

{% configuration %}
device:
  description: The gsm modem device.
  required: true
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

## Notifications

You can also receive SMS messages that are sent to the SIM card number in your device.
Every time there is a message received, `event: sms.incoming_sms` is fired with date, phone number and text message.

To use notifications, please see the [getting started with automation page](/getting-started/automation/).

If the integration is used with the Home Assistant Operating System, then version [3.6](https://github.com/home-assistant/hassos/releases/tag/3.6) or higher is required.

For installations not running on Home Assistant or Home Assistant Core using Docker, you must install `gammu-dev` package:

```bash
sudo apt-get install libgammu-dev
```

Before running for the first time, check that the system recognizes the modem by running:

```bash
ls -l /dev/*USB*
```

Note: When running Home Assistant, you need to install the SSH add-on.

## Required Hardware

You will need a USB GSM stick modem or device like SIM800L v2 connected via USB UART.

### List of modems known to work

- [Huawei E3372-510](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01N6P3HI2/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1)(
Need to unlock it using [this guide](http://blog.asiantuntijakaveri.fi/2015/07/convert-huawei-e3372h-153-from.html))
- [Huawei E3531](https://www.amazon.com/Modem-Huawei-Unlocked-Caribbean-Desbloqueado/dp/B011YZZ6Q2/ref=sr_1_1?keywords=Huawei+E3531&qid=1581447800&sr=8-1)
- [Huawei E3272](https://www.amazon.com/Huawei-E3272s-506-Unlocked-Americas-Europe/dp/B00HBL51OQ)
- [SIM800C](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B087Z6F953/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1)
- ZTE K3565-Z

### List of modems known to NOT work

- No known modems

### List of modems that may work

Search in the [Gammu database](https://wammu.eu/phones/) for modems with AT connection.

### Huawei/ZTE modems (and similar) devices - NOT applicable for users of Home Assistant OS, Container or Supervised.

For some unknown reason, the rule that converts these modems from storage devices into serial devices may not run automatically. To work around this problem, follow the procedure below to change the modem mode and (optionally) create `udev` rule on a configuration USB stick for the device to switch to serial mode persistently.

1. Install the `usb_modeswitch` software to switch the modem operational mode (for Debian/Ubuntu distros):

```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install usb-modeswitch -y
```

2. Run `lsusb`, its output should be similar to this:

```bash
bus 000 device 001: ID 1FFF:342a
bus 001 device 005: ID 12d1:15ca   <-------- Huawei is usually 12d1
bus 000 device 002: ID 2354:5352
bus 000 device 002: ID 1232:15ca
```

Identify the brand for your GSM modem, copy the `brand_Id` and `product_id` (In this case `brand_id = 12d1` and `product_Id = 15ca`)

3. Try disabling virtual cd-rom and change work mode to "only modem": 

```bash
sudo /sbin/usb_modeswitch -X -v 12d1 -p 15ca
```
Re-plug the device. After this the modem correct should work without the following 'udev' rule.

4. (Optional) Configure the udev rule to persist the correct modem configuration even after disconnecting it:

Set this content in file `udev\10-gsm-modem.rules` in the [configuration USB](https://github.com/home-assistant/operating-system/blob/master/Documentation/configuration.md#automatic):
(Replace `brand_Id` and `product_id` for the numbers reported by `lsusb`)

```bash
ACTION=="add" \
, ATTRS{idVendor}=="brand_Id" \
, ATTRS{idProduct}=="product_Id" \
, RUN+="/sbin/usb_modeswitch -X -v brand_Id -p product_Id"
```

Here is a sample configuration file:

```bash
ACTION=="add" \
, ATTRS{idVendor}=="12d1" \
, ATTRS{idProduct}=="15ca" \
, RUN+="/sbin/usb_modeswitch -X -v 12d1 -p 15ca"
```

Re-plug the USB stick, reboot the device, run `lsusb` again.
The resulting product id now should be different and the brand id should be the same.
And `ls -l /dev/*USB*` should now report your device.

If the device is still not recognized, remove the parameter -X from the usb_modeswitch command and reboot again.

## More details:

- [Original thread discussion](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/send-sms-with-usb-gsm-modem-when-alarm-triggered/28942/38)
