source/_integrations/switch.template.markdown, before:

---
title: "Template Switch"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate Template Switches into Home Assistant."
ha_category:
  - Switch
ha_release: 0.13
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_quality_scale: internal
ha_domain: template
---

The `template` platform creates switches that combines components.

For example, if you have a garage door with a toggle switch that operates the motor and a sensor that allows you know whether the door is open or closed, you can combine these into a switch that knows whether the garage door is open or closed.

This can simplify the GUI and make it easier to write automations.

## Configuration

To enable Template Switches in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      skylight:
        value_template: "{{ is_state('sensor.skylight', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: switch.turn_on
          target:
            entity_id: switch.skylight_open
        turn_off:
          service: switch.turn_off
          target:
            entity_id: switch.skylight_close
```

{% endraw %}

{% configuration %}
  switches:
    description: List of your switches.
    required: true
    type: map
    keys:
      friendly_name:
        description: Name to use in the frontend.
        required: false
        type: string
      unique_id:
        description: An ID that uniquely identifies this switch. Set this to a unique value to allow customization through the UI.
        required: false
        type: string
      value_template:
        description: Defines a template to set the state of the switch. If not defined, the switch will optimistically assume all commands are successful.
        required: false
        type: template
        default: optimistic
      availability_template:
        description: Defines a template to get the `available` state of the entity. If the template either fails to render or returns `True`, `"1"`, `"true"`, `"yes"`, `"on"`, `"enable"`, or a non-zero number, the entity will be `available`. If the template returns any other value, the entity will be `unavailable`. If not configured, the entity will always be `available`. Note that the string comparison not case sensitive; `"TrUe"` and `"yEs"` are allowed.
        required: false
        type: template
        default: true
      turn_on:
        description: Defines an action to run when the switch is turned on.
        required: true
        type: action
      turn_off:
        description: Defines an action to run when the switch is turned off.
        required: true
        type: action
      icon_template:
        description: Defines a template for the icon of the switch.
        required: false
        type: template
      entity_picture_template:
        description: Defines a template for the picture of the switch.
        required: false
        type: template
{% endconfiguration %}

## Considerations

If you are using the state of a platform that takes extra time to load, the Template Switch may get an `unknown` state during startup. This results in error messages in your log file until that platform has completed loading. If you use `is_state()` function in your template, you can avoid this situation. For example, you would replace {% raw %}`{{ states.switch.source.state == 'on') }}`{% endraw %} with this equivalent that returns `true`/`false` and never gives an unknown result: {% raw %}`{{ is_state('switch.source', 'on') }}`{% endraw %}

## Examples

In this section you find some real-life examples of how to use this switch.

### Copy Switch

This example shows a switch that copies another switch.

{% raw %}

```yaml
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      copy:
        value_template: "{{ is_state('switch.source', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: switch.turn_on
          target:
            entity_id: switch.target
        turn_off:
          service: switch.turn_off
          target:
            entity_id: switch.target
```

{% endraw %}

### Toggle Switch

This example shows a switch that takes its state from a sensor and toggles a switch.

{% raw %}

```yaml
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      blind:
        friendly_name: "Blind"
        value_template: "{{ is_state_attr('switch.blind_toggle', 'sensor_state', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: switch.toggle
          target:
            entity_id: switch.blind_toggle
        turn_off:
          service: switch.toggle
          target:
            entity_id: switch.blind_toggle
```

{% endraw %}

### Multiple actions for turn_on or turn_off

This example shows multiple service calls for turn_on and turn_off.

{% raw %}

```yaml
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      copy:
        value_template: "{{ is_state('switch.source', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          - service: switch.turn_on
            target:
              entity_id: switch.target
          - service: light.turn_on
            target:
              entity_id: light.target
            data:
              brightness_pct: 40
        turn_off:
          - service: switch.turn_off
            target:
              entity_id: switch.target
          - service: light.turn_off
            target:
              entity_id: light.target
```

{% endraw %}

### Sensor and Two Switches

This example shows a switch that takes its state from a sensor, and uses two
momentary switches to control a device.

{% raw %}

```yaml
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      skylight:
        friendly_name: "Skylight"
        value_template: "{{ is_state('sensor.skylight', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: switch.turn_on
          target:
            entity_id: switch.skylight_open
        turn_off:
          service: switch.turn_on
          target:
            entity_id: switch.skylight_close
```

{% endraw %}

### Change The Icon

This example shows how to change the icon based on the day/night cycle.

{% raw %}

```yaml
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      garage:
        value_template: "{{ is_state('cover.garage_door', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: cover.open_cover
          target:
            entity_id: cover.garage_door
        turn_off:
          service: cover.close_cover
          target:
            entity_id: cover.garage_door
        icon_template: >-
          {% if is_state('cover.garage_door', 'open') %}
            mdi:garage-open
          {% else %}
            mdi:garage
          {% endif %}
```

{% endraw %}

### Change The Entity Picture

This example shows how to change the entity picture based on the day/night cycle.

{% raw %}

```yaml
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      garage:
        value_template: "{{ is_state('cover.garage_door', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: cover.open_cover
          target:
            entity_id: cover.garage_door
        turn_off:
          service: cover.close_cover
          target:
            entity_id: cover.garage_door
        entity_picture_template: >-
          {% if is_state('cover.garage_door', 'open') %}
            /local/garage-open.png
          {% else %}
            /local/garage-closed.png
          {% endif %}
```

{% endraw %}

Commit message:

Clarify teplate switch options
Make it clear the `turn_on` and `turn_off` actions can contain multiple actions. This has been missed by people who only read the configuration options and do not scroll down far enough to see the multiple action example.

source/_integrations/switch.template.markdown, after:

---
title: "Template Switch"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate Template Switches into Home Assistant."
ha_category:
  - Switch
ha_release: 0.13
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_quality_scale: internal
ha_domain: template
---

The `template` platform creates switches that combines components.

For example, if you have a garage door with a toggle switch that operates the motor and a sensor that allows you know whether the door is open or closed, you can combine these into a switch that knows whether the garage door is open or closed.

This can simplify the GUI and make it easier to write automations.

## Configuration

To enable Template Switches in your installation, add the following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

{% raw %}

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      skylight:
        value_template: "{{ is_state('sensor.skylight', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: switch.turn_on
          target:
            entity_id: switch.skylight_open
        turn_off:
          service: switch.turn_off
          target:
            entity_id: switch.skylight_close
```

{% endraw %}

{% configuration %}
  switches:
    description: List of your switches.
    required: true
    type: map
    keys:
      friendly_name:
        description: Name to use in the frontend.
        required: false
        type: string
      unique_id:
        description: An ID that uniquely identifies this switch. Set this to a unique value to allow customization through the UI.
        required: false
        type: string
      value_template:
        description: Defines a template to set the state of the switch. If not defined, the switch will optimistically assume all commands are successful.
        required: false
        type: template
        default: optimistic
      availability_template:
        description: Defines a template to get the `available` state of the entity. If the template either fails to render or returns `True`, `"1"`, `"true"`, `"yes"`, `"on"`, `"enable"`, or a non-zero number, the entity will be `available`. If the template returns any other value, the entity will be `unavailable`. If not configured, the entity will always be `available`. Note that the string comparison not case sensitive; `"TrUe"` and `"yEs"` are allowed.
        required: false
        type: template
        default: true
      turn_on:
        description: Defines an action or list of actions to run when the switch is turned on.
        required: true
        type: action
      turn_off:
        description: Defines an action or list of actions to run when the switch is turned off.
        required: true
        type: action
      icon_template:
        description: Defines a template for the icon of the switch.
        required: false
        type: template
      entity_picture_template:
        description: Defines a template for the picture of the switch.
        required: false
        type: template
{% endconfiguration %}

## Considerations

If you are using the state of a platform that takes extra time to load, the Template Switch may get an `unknown` state during startup. This results in error messages in your log file until that platform has completed loading. If you use `is_state()` function in your template, you can avoid this situation. For example, you would replace {% raw %}`{{ states.switch.source.state == 'on') }}`{% endraw %} with this equivalent that returns `true`/`false` and never gives an unknown result: {% raw %}`{{ is_state('switch.source', 'on') }}`{% endraw %}

## Examples

In this section you find some real-life examples of how to use this switch.

### Copy Switch

This example shows a switch that copies another switch.

{% raw %}

```yaml
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      copy:
        value_template: "{{ is_state('switch.source', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: switch.turn_on
          target:
            entity_id: switch.target
        turn_off:
          service: switch.turn_off
          target:
            entity_id: switch.target
```

{% endraw %}

### Toggle Switch

This example shows a switch that takes its state from a sensor and toggles a switch.

{% raw %}

```yaml
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      blind:
        friendly_name: "Blind"
        value_template: "{{ is_state_attr('switch.blind_toggle', 'sensor_state', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: switch.toggle
          target:
            entity_id: switch.blind_toggle
        turn_off:
          service: switch.toggle
          target:
            entity_id: switch.blind_toggle
```

{% endraw %}

### Multiple actions for turn_on or turn_off

This example shows multiple service calls for turn_on and turn_off.

{% raw %}

```yaml
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      copy:
        value_template: "{{ is_state('switch.source', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          - service: switch.turn_on
            target:
              entity_id: switch.target
          - service: light.turn_on
            target:
              entity_id: light.target
            data:
              brightness_pct: 40
        turn_off:
          - service: switch.turn_off
            target:
              entity_id: switch.target
          - service: light.turn_off
            target:
              entity_id: light.target
```

{% endraw %}

### Sensor and Two Switches

This example shows a switch that takes its state from a sensor, and uses two
momentary switches to control a device.

{% raw %}

```yaml
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      skylight:
        friendly_name: "Skylight"
        value_template: "{{ is_state('sensor.skylight', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: switch.turn_on
          target:
            entity_id: switch.skylight_open
        turn_off:
          service: switch.turn_on
          target:
            entity_id: switch.skylight_close
```

{% endraw %}

### Change The Icon

This example shows how to change the icon based on the day/night cycle.

{% raw %}

```yaml
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      garage:
        value_template: "{{ is_state('cover.garage_door', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: cover.open_cover
          target:
            entity_id: cover.garage_door
        turn_off:
          service: cover.close_cover
          target:
            entity_id: cover.garage_door
        icon_template: >-
          {% if is_state('cover.garage_door', 'open') %}
            mdi:garage-open
          {% else %}
            mdi:garage
          {% endif %}
```

{% endraw %}

### Change The Entity Picture

This example shows how to change the entity picture based on the day/night cycle.

{% raw %}

```yaml
switch:
  - platform: template
    switches:
      garage:
        value_template: "{{ is_state('cover.garage_door', 'on') }}"
        turn_on:
          service: cover.open_cover
          target:
            entity_id: cover.garage_door
        turn_off:
          service: cover.close_cover
          target:
            entity_id: cover.garage_door
        entity_picture_template: >-
          {% if is_state('cover.garage_door', 'open') %}
            /local/garage-open.png
          {% else %}
            /local/garage-closed.png
          {% endif %}
```

{% endraw %}
