source/_integrations/system_bridge.markdown, before:

---
title: System Bridge
description: How to integrate the System Bridge integration into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Sensor
  - System Monitor
ha_release: 2021.6
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@timmo001'
ha_domain: system_bridge
ha_quality_scale: silver
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - sensor
ha_zeroconf: true
ha_integration_type: integration
---

[System Bridge](https://system-bridge.timmo.dev) is an application that runs on your local machine to share system information via its API as well as allowing commands to be sent to the device.

## Prerequisites

You will need your API key. This can be found and configured in the application's settings.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Binary Sensors

This integration provides the following binary sensors:

| Name                  | Description                        |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| Battery Is Charging   | Whether the battery is charging    |
| New Version Available | Whether a new version is available |

## Sensors

This integration provides the following sensors:

| Name                   | Description                                         |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Battery                | Battery level of the device                         |
| Displays Connected     | Number of displays connected                        |
| Display Resolution X   | Display resolution (across)                         |
| Display Resolution Y   | Display resolution (down)                           |
| Display Refresh Rate   | Display refresh rate                                |
| CPU Speed              | The current CPU speed                               |
| Filesystem(s)          | Space used for each drive letter / filesystem mount |
| GPU Memory Free        | GPU memory free in GB                               |
| GPU Usage %            | GPU usage percentage                                |
| Kernel                 | Version information of the Kernel                   |
| Memory Free            | Memory (RAM) free in GB                             |
| Memory Used            | Memory (RAM) used in GB                             |
| Memory Used %          | Memory (RAM) % used                                 |
| Operating System       | Version information of the Operating System         |
| Version                | System Bridge Version                               |
| Latest Version         | System Bridge Latest Version                        |

These sensors are also available, but are not enabled by default:

| Name                   | Description                              |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| BIOS Version           | Version of your system's BIOS            |
| CPU Temperature        | The current temperature of the CPU       |
| CPU Voltage            | The current voltage of the CPU           |
| GPU Core Clock Speed   | GPU core clock speed in MHz              |
| GPU Memory Clock Speed | GPU memory clock speed in MHz            |
| GPU Fan Speed          | GPU fan speed percentage                 |
| GPU Memory Used        | GPU memory used in GB                    |
| GPU Memory Used %      | GPU memory used percentage               |
| GPU Power Usage        | GPU power usage                          |
| GPU Temperature        | The current temperature of the GPU       |
| Idle Load              | System idle load percentage              |
| System Load            | System load percentage                   |
| User Load              | System user load percentage              |
| Idle Load (Per CPU)    | System idle load percentage for each CPU |
| System Load (Per CPU)  | System load percentage for each CPU      |
| User Load (Per CPU)    | System user load percentage for each CPU |

## Services

### Service `system_bridge.send_command`

Sends a command to the server to run.

{% my developer_call_service service="system_bridge.send_command" title="Open your Home Assistant instance and show your service developer tools with a specific service selected." %}

#### Examples

```yaml
service: system_bridge.send_command
data:
  bridge: device
  command: code
  arguments: /home/user/file.txt
```

```yaml
service: system_bridge.send_command
data:
  bridge: device
  command: python
  arguments: '-V'
```

### Service `system_bridge.open`

Open a URL or file on the server using the default application.

{% my developer_call_service service="system_bridge.open" title="Open your Home Assistant instance and show your service developer tools with a specific service selected." %}

#### Examples

```yaml
service: system_bridge.open
data:
  bridge: "device"
  path: "C:\\image.jpg"
```

```yaml
service: system_bridge.open
data:
  bridge: "device"
  path: "https://home-assistant.io"
```

```yaml
service: system_bridge.open
data:
  bridge: "device"
  path: "steam://rungameid/814380"
```

### Service `system_bridge.send_keypress`

Send a keypress to the server.

```yaml
service: system_bridge.send_keypress
data:
  bridge: "device"
  key: "a"
```

### Service `system_bridge.send_text`

Sends text for the server to type.

```yaml
service: system_bridge.send_text
data:
  bridge: "device"
  text: "Hello"
```

Commit message:

Add media source documentation to system bridge

source/_integrations/system_bridge.markdown, after:

---
title: System Bridge
description: How to integrate the System Bridge integration into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Sensor
  - System Monitor
ha_release: 2021.6
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@timmo001'
ha_domain: system_bridge
ha_quality_scale: silver
ha_platforms:
  - binary_sensor
  - sensor
ha_zeroconf: true
ha_integration_type: integration
---

[System Bridge](https://system-bridge.timmo.dev) is an application that runs on your local machine to share system information via its API as well as allowing commands to be sent to the device.

## Prerequisites

You will need your API key. This can be found and configured in the application's settings.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Binary Sensors

This integration provides the following binary sensors:

| Name                  | Description                        |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| Battery Is Charging   | Whether the battery is charging    |
| New Version Available | Whether a new version is available |

## Sensors

This integration provides the following sensors:

| Name                   | Description                                         |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Battery                | Battery level of the device                         |
| Displays Connected     | Number of displays connected                        |
| Display Resolution X   | Display resolution (across)                         |
| Display Resolution Y   | Display resolution (down)                           |
| Display Refresh Rate   | Display refresh rate                                |
| CPU Speed              | The current CPU speed                               |
| Filesystem(s)          | Space used for each drive letter / filesystem mount |
| GPU Memory Free        | GPU memory free in GB                               |
| GPU Usage %            | GPU usage percentage                                |
| Kernel                 | Version information of the Kernel                   |
| Memory Free            | Memory (RAM) free in GB                             |
| Memory Used            | Memory (RAM) used in GB                             |
| Memory Used %          | Memory (RAM) % used                                 |
| Operating System       | Version information of the Operating System         |
| Version                | System Bridge Version                               |
| Latest Version         | System Bridge Latest Version                        |

These sensors are also available, but are not enabled by default:

| Name                   | Description                              |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| BIOS Version           | Version of your system's BIOS            |
| CPU Temperature        | The current temperature of the CPU       |
| CPU Voltage            | The current voltage of the CPU           |
| GPU Core Clock Speed   | GPU core clock speed in MHz              |
| GPU Memory Clock Speed | GPU memory clock speed in MHz            |
| GPU Fan Speed          | GPU fan speed percentage                 |
| GPU Memory Used        | GPU memory used in GB                    |
| GPU Memory Used %      | GPU memory used percentage               |
| GPU Power Usage        | GPU power usage                          |
| GPU Temperature        | The current temperature of the GPU       |
| Idle Load              | System idle load percentage              |
| System Load            | System load percentage                   |
| User Load              | System user load percentage              |
| Idle Load (Per CPU)    | System idle load percentage for each CPU |
| System Load (Per CPU)  | System load percentage for each CPU      |
| User Load (Per CPU)    | System user load percentage for each CPU |

## Media Source

This integration is available as a media source to use with the media browser integration. You can browse and view media from your system to media players such as your web browser and other supported media players.

## Services

### Service `system_bridge.send_command`

Sends a command to the server to run.

{% my developer_call_service service="system_bridge.send_command" title="Open your Home Assistant instance and show your service developer tools with a specific service selected." %}

#### Examples

```yaml
service: system_bridge.send_command
data:
  bridge: device
  command: code
  arguments: /home/user/file.txt
```

```yaml
service: system_bridge.send_command
data:
  bridge: device
  command: python
  arguments: '-V'
```

### Service `system_bridge.open`

Open a URL or file on the server using the default application.

{% my developer_call_service service="system_bridge.open" title="Open your Home Assistant instance and show your service developer tools with a specific service selected." %}

#### Examples

```yaml
service: system_bridge.open
data:
  bridge: "device"
  path: "C:\\image.jpg"
```

```yaml
service: system_bridge.open
data:
  bridge: "device"
  path: "https://home-assistant.io"
```

```yaml
service: system_bridge.open
data:
  bridge: "device"
  path: "steam://rungameid/814380"
```

### Service `system_bridge.send_keypress`

Send a keypress to the server.

```yaml
service: system_bridge.send_keypress
data:
  bridge: "device"
  key: "a"
```

### Service `system_bridge.send_text`

Sends text for the server to type.

```yaml
service: system_bridge.send_text
data:
  bridge: "device"
  text: "Hello"
```
