---
title: The Energy Detective TED5000
description: How to add a TED5000 to Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Energy
ha_release: '0.30'
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_domain: ted5000
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
---

The `ted5000` monitors electricity consumption/production by connecting to the [TED](https://www.theenergydetective.com/home) gateway, itself connected to one or several Measuring Transmitting Units (MTU). The platform creates up to five sensors per MTU depending on config mode

All modes:
- Power (W)
- Voltage (V)

Advanced and extended modes:
- Energy Daily (Wh)
- Energy Monthly (Wh)
- Power Factor (%)

In addition to above MTU sensors, seven utility sensors can also be added in extended mode.

Extended mode:
- MTUs Quantity
- Current Rate $/kWh
- Days left in billing cycle
- Plan type (Flat, Tier, TOU, Tier+TOU)
- Current Tier (0 = Disabled)
- Current TOU (0 = Disabled)
- Current TOU Description (if Current TOU is 0 => Not Configured)


If you want to enable the ted5000 sensor, add the following lines to your `configuration.yaml`:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sensor:
  - platform: ted5000
    host: 192.168.1.100
```

{% configuration %}
host:
  description: The IP address of your ted gateway.
  required: true
  type: string
port:
  description: The port of your ted gateway.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 80
name:
  description: Name of the ted gateway.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: ted
mode:
  description: Configuration mode. `base`, `advanced`, `extended`.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: base
scan_interval:
  description: Scan interval. Gateway normally updates every 10-15 seconds, anything below this won't update.
  required: false
  type: integer
  default: 10
{% endconfiguration %}

For each plugged MTU, using an index starting at 1, the platform creates the following sensors depending on the configured mode:

Base mode:
```yaml
sensor.<name>_mtu<MTU id>_power
sensor.<name>_mtu<MTU id>_voltage
```

Advanced mode:
```yaml
sensor.<name>_mtu<MTU id>_energy_daily
sensor.<name>_mtu<MTU id>_energy_monthly
sensor.<name>_mtu<MTU id>_pf
```

Extended mode:
```yaml
sensor.<name>_utility_mtus
sensor.<name>_utility_currentrate
sensor.<name>_utility_daysleftinbillingcycle
sensor.<name>_utility_plantype
sensor.<name>_utility_currentiter
sensor.<name>_utility_currenttou
sensor.<name>_utility_currenttoudescription
```
