source/_integrations/vesync.markdown, before:

---
title: VeSync
description: Instructions on how to set up VeSync switches, outlets, and fans within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Fan
  - Light
  - Switch
ha_release: 0.66
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@markperdue'
  - '@webdjoe'
  - '@thegardenmonkey'
ha_domain: vesync
ha_platforms:
  - fan
  - light
  - sensor
  - switch
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `vesync` integration enables you to control smart switches and outlets connected to the VeSync App.

The devices must be added to the VeSync App before this integration can discover them.

The following platforms are supported:

- **light**
- **switch**
- **fan**
- **sensor**

## Supported Devices

This integration supports devices controllable by the VeSync App.  The following devices are supported by this integration:

### Bulbs
- Etekcity WiFi Dimmable LED Bulb (ESL100)
- Etekcity WiFi Dimmable and Tunable White LED Bulb (ESL100CW)

### Wall Switches

- Etekcity In Wall Smart Switch (EWSL01-USA)
- Etekcity Wifi Dimmer Switch (ESD16)
- Etekcity Wifi Dimmer Switch (ESWD16)

### Outlet Plugs

- Etekcity 7 Amp US outlet - ESW01-USA (Round)
- Etekcity 10 Amp US outlet - ESW10-USA (Round)
- Etekcity 10 Amp EU outlet - ESW10-EU (Round)
- Etekcity 15 Amp US outlet - ESW15-USA (Rectangular)
- Etekcity 2 Plug Outdoor Outlet - ESO15-TB

### Fans

- Core 200S: Smart True HEPA Air Purifier
- Core 300S: Smart True HEPA Air Purifier
- Core 400S: Smart True HEPA Air Purifier
- Core 600S: Smart True HEPA Air Purifier
- LEVOIT Smart Wifi Air Purifier (LV-PUR131S)

## Prerequisite

Before you can use this integration, all devices must be registered with the
VeSync App. Once registration is complete, continue with the steps described in
the configuration section below.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Services

| Service | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `update_devices` | Poll Vesync server to find and add any new devices |

## Power & Energy Sensors

Many VeSync outlets support power & energy monitoring. These data are exposed as diagnostic sensor entities alongside the outlet
itself. Note that prior versions of the integration exposed these as state attributes on the outlet switch entity.

| Sensor                                  | Description                                                        | Example |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- |
| `sensor.<outlet name>_current_power`    | The present power consumption of the switch in watts               | 7.89    |
| `sensor.<outlet name>_energy_use_today` | The kilowatt hours used by the switch during the previous 24 hours | 0.12    |

## Outlet Exposed Attributes

VeSync outlets will expose the following details for only the smart outlets. Energy monitoring not available for in-wall switches.

| Attribute               | Description                                                             | Example         |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `voltage`               | Current voltage of the device                                           | 120.32          |
| `weekly_energy_total`   | Total energy usage for week starting from Monday 12:01AM in kWh         | 14.74           |
| `monthly_energy_total`  | Total energy usage for month starting from 12:01AM on the first in kWh  | 52.30           |
| `yearly_energy_total`   | Total energy usage for year start from 12:01AM on Jan 1 in kWh          | 105.25          |

## Fan & Air Quality Sensors
All VeSync air purifiers expose the remaining filter life, and some also expose air quality measurements.

| Sensor                                  | Description                                                        | Example |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- |
| `filter_life`           | Remaining percentage of the filter. (LV-PUR131S, Core200S/300s/400s/600s)         | 142       |
| `air_quality`           | The current air quality reading. (LV-PUR131S, Core400s/600s)                      | excellent |
| `pm2_5`                 | The current air quality reading. (Core400s/600s)                                  | 8         |

## Fan Exposed Attributes

VeSync air purifiers will expose the following details depending on the features supported by the model:

| Attribute               | Description                                                                       | Example         |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `mode`                  | The current mode the device is in. (LV-PUR131S, Core200S/300s/400s)               | manual          |
| `speed`                 | The current speed setting of the device. (LV-PUR131S, Core200S/300s/400s)         | high            |
| `speed_list`            | The available list of speeds supported by the device. (LV-PUR131S)                | high            |
| `active_time`           | The number of seconds since the device has been in a non-off mode. (LV-PUR131S)   | 1598            |
| `screen_status`         | The current status of the screen. (LV-PUR131S)                                    | on              |
| `night_light`           | The current status of the night light (Core200S/Core400s)                         | off             |
| `child_lock`            | The current status of the child lock (Core200S/300s/400s)                         | off             |

## Extracting Attribute data

In order to get the attributes readings from supported devices, such as voltage from outlets or fan attributes, you'll have to create a [template sensor](/integrations/template#state-based-template-sensors/).

In the example below, change all of the `vesync_switch`'s to match your device's entity ID.

Adapted from the [TP-Link integration](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/tplink/#plugs).

{% raw %}

```yaml
template:
  - sensor:
    - name: "Vesync voltage"
      state: "{{ state_attr('switch.vesync_switch', 'voltage') | float(default=0) }}"
      unit_of_measurement: "V"
```
{% endraw %}

Commit message:

vesync: add voltage sensor, move all energy attributes to todays energy sensor

source/_integrations/vesync.markdown, after:

---
title: VeSync
description: Instructions on how to set up VeSync switches, outlets, and fans within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Fan
  - Light
  - Switch
ha_release: 0.66
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@markperdue'
  - '@webdjoe'
  - '@thegardenmonkey'
ha_domain: vesync
ha_platforms:
  - fan
  - light
  - sensor
  - switch
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `vesync` integration enables you to control smart switches and outlets connected to the VeSync App.

The devices must be added to the VeSync App before this integration can discover them.

The following platforms are supported:

- **light**
- **switch**
- **fan**
- **sensor**

## Supported Devices

This integration supports devices controllable by the VeSync App.  The following devices are supported by this integration:

### Bulbs
- Etekcity WiFi Dimmable LED Bulb (ESL100)
- Etekcity WiFi Dimmable and Tunable White LED Bulb (ESL100CW)

### Wall Switches

- Etekcity In Wall Smart Switch (EWSL01-USA)
- Etekcity Wifi Dimmer Switch (ESD16)
- Etekcity Wifi Dimmer Switch (ESWD16)

### Outlet Plugs

- Etekcity 7 Amp US outlet - ESW01-USA (Round)
- Etekcity 10 Amp US outlet - ESW10-USA (Round)
- Etekcity 10 Amp EU outlet - ESW10-EU (Round)
- Etekcity 15 Amp US outlet - ESW15-USA (Rectangular)
- Etekcity 2 Plug Outdoor Outlet - ESO15-TB

### Fans

- Core 200S: Smart True HEPA Air Purifier
- Core 300S: Smart True HEPA Air Purifier
- Core 400S: Smart True HEPA Air Purifier
- Core 600S: Smart True HEPA Air Purifier
- LEVOIT Smart Wifi Air Purifier (LV-PUR131S)

## Prerequisite

Before you can use this integration, all devices must be registered with the
VeSync App. Once registration is complete, continue with the steps described in
the configuration section below.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Services

| Service | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `update_devices` | Poll Vesync server to find and add any new devices |

## Power & Energy Sensors

Many VeSync outlets support power & energy monitoring. These data are exposed as diagnostic sensor entities alongside the outlet
itself. Note that prior versions of the integration exposed these as state attributes on the outlet switch entity.

| Sensor                                  | Description                                                        | Example |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- |
| `sensor.<outlet name>_current_power`    | The present power consumption of the switch in watts               | 7.89    |
| `sensor.<outlet name>_energy_use_today` | The kilowatt hours used by the switch during the previous 24 hours | 0.12    |
| `sensor.<outlet name>_voltage`          | The present voltage of the switch in Volts                         | 120.32  |

## Outlet Exposed Attributes

VeSync outlets will expose the following details for only the smart outlets on the `sensor.<outlet name>_energy_use_today`
sensor. Energy monitoring not available for in-wall switches.

| Attribute               | Description                                                             | Example         |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `weekly_energy_total`   | Total energy usage for week starting from Monday 12:01AM in kWh         | 14.74           |
| `monthly_energy_total`  | Total energy usage for month starting from 12:01AM on the first in kWh  | 52.30           |
| `yearly_energy_total`   | Total energy usage for year start from 12:01AM on Jan 1 in kWh          | 105.25          |

## Fan & Air Quality Sensors
All VeSync air purifiers expose the remaining filter life, and some also expose air quality measurements.

| Sensor                                  | Description                                                        | Example |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- |
| `filter_life`           | Remaining percentage of the filter. (LV-PUR131S, Core200S/300s/400s/600s)         | 142       |
| `air_quality`           | The current air quality reading. (LV-PUR131S, Core400s/600s)                      | excellent |
| `pm2_5`                 | The current air quality reading. (Core400s/600s)                                  | 8         |

## Fan Exposed Attributes

VeSync air purifiers will expose the following details depending on the features supported by the model:

| Attribute               | Description                                                                       | Example         |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `mode`                  | The current mode the device is in. (LV-PUR131S, Core200S/300s/400s)               | manual          |
| `speed`                 | The current speed setting of the device. (LV-PUR131S, Core200S/300s/400s)         | high            |
| `speed_list`            | The available list of speeds supported by the device. (LV-PUR131S)                | high            |
| `active_time`           | The number of seconds since the device has been in a non-off mode. (LV-PUR131S)   | 1598            |
| `screen_status`         | The current status of the screen. (LV-PUR131S)                                    | on              |
| `night_light`           | The current status of the night light (Core200S/Core400s)                         | off             |
| `child_lock`            | The current status of the child lock (Core200S/300s/400s)                         | off             |

## Extracting Attribute data

In order to get the attributes readings from supported devices, such as voltage from outlets or fan attributes, you'll have to create a [template sensor](/integrations/template#state-based-template-sensors/).

In the example below, change all of the `vesync_switch`'s to match your device's entity ID.

Adapted from the [TP-Link integration](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/tplink/#plugs).

{% raw %}

```yaml
template:
  - sensor:
    - name: "Vesync voltage"
      state: "{{ state_attr('switch.vesync_switch', 'voltage') | float(default=0) }}"
      unit_of_measurement: "V"
```
{% endraw %}
