source/_integrations/waze_travel_time.markdown, before:

---
title: Waze Travel Time
description: Instructions on how to add Waze travel time to Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Transport
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_release: 0.67
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: waze_travel_time
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_codeowners:
  - '@eifinger'
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `waze_travel_time` sensor provides travel time from the [Waze](https://www.waze.com/).

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

Notes:

- If a unit system is not specified, the integration will use the unit system configured on your Home Assistant instance.
- Origin and Destination can be the address or the GPS coordinates of the location (GPS coordinates have to be separated by a comma). You can also enter an entity id which provides this information in its state, an entity id with latitude and longitude attributes, or zone friendly name (case sensitive).
- The string inputs for `Substring *` allow you to force the integration to use a particular route or avoid a particular route in its time travel calculation. These inputs are case insensitive matched against the description of the route.
- When using the `Avoid Toll Roads?`, `Avoid Subscription Roads?` and `Avoid Ferries?` options be aware that Waze will sometimes still route you over toll roads or ferries if a valid vignette/subscription is assumed. Default behavior is that Waze will route you over roads having subscription options, so best is to set both `Avoid Toll Roads?` and `Avoid Subscription Roads?` or `Avoid Ferries?` if needed and experiment to ensure the desired outcome.

## Manual Polling

Some users will want to have more control over polling frequencies. To use more granular polling, disable automated polling in your config entry's System Options. To manually trigger a polling request, call the [`homeassistant.update_entity` service](/integrations/homeassistant/#service-homeassistantupdate_entity) as needed, either manually or via automations.

## Example using dynamic destination

Using the flexible option to set a sensor value to the `Destination`, you can setup a single Waze integration that will calculate travel time to multiple optional locations on demand.

In the following example, the `Input Select` is converted into an address which is used to modify the destination for Waze route calculation from `device_tracker.myphone` location (It takes a few minutes for the value to update due to the interval of Waze data fetching).

{% raw %}

```yaml
input_select:
  destination:
    name: destination
    options:
      - Home
      - Work
      - Parents

template:
  - sensor:
     - name: "Destination address"
       state: >-
          {%- if is_state("input_select.destination", "Home")  -%}
            725 5th Ave, New York, NY 10022, USA
          {%- elif is_state("input_select.destination", "Work")  -%}
            767 5th Ave, New York, NY 10153, USA
          {%- elif is_state("input_select.destination", "Parents")  -%}
            178 Broadway, Brooklyn, NY 11211, USA
          {%- else -%}
            Unknown
          {%- endif %}

```

{% endraw %}

### Various configurations that are supported

#### Tracking entity to entity

In this example we use a device_tracker entity ID as the origin and the sensor created above as the destination.

  - Name: "Me to some destination"
  - Origin: `device_tracker.myphone`
  - Destination: `sensor.dest_address`
  - Region: "US"

#### Tracking entity to zone friendly name

In this example we are using the entity ID of a zone as the origin and the friendly name of a zone as the destination.

  - Name: "Home to Eddie's house"
  - Origin: `zone.home`
  - Destination: "Eddies House"
  - Region: "US"

#### Tracking entity in Imperial Units

  - Name: "Somewhere in New York"
  - Origin: `person.paulus`
  - Destination: "725 5th Ave, New York, NY 10022, USA"
  - Region: "US"
  - Units: "imperial"
  - Vehicle Type: "motorcycle"

#### Avoiding toll, subscription

  - Name: "Westerscheldetunnel"
  - Origin: "51.330436, 3.802043"
  - Destination: "51.445677, 3.749929"
  - Region: "EU"
  - Avoid Toll Roads: `True`
  - Avoid Subscription Roads: `True`

## Using the live map in an iFrame

If you plan to use [Waze's live map](https://developers.google.com/waze/iframe/)
in a dashboard [iframe](/dashboards/iframe/) then use
[https://embed.waze.com/iframe](https://embed.waze.com/iframe) and not the live map URL itself.

Commit message:

Clarified manual polling disable instructions
Updated text to lead people to the correct spot to manually disable polling for this integration.

source/_integrations/waze_travel_time.markdown, after:

---
title: Waze Travel Time
description: Instructions on how to add Waze travel time to Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Transport
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_release: 0.67
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: waze_travel_time
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_codeowners:
  - '@eifinger'
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `waze_travel_time` sensor provides travel time from the [Waze](https://www.waze.com/).

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

Notes:

- If a unit system is not specified, the integration will use the unit system configured on your Home Assistant instance.
- Origin and Destination can be the address or the GPS coordinates of the location (GPS coordinates have to be separated by a comma). You can also enter an entity id which provides this information in its state, an entity id with latitude and longitude attributes, or zone friendly name (case sensitive).
- The string inputs for `Substring *` allow you to force the integration to use a particular route or avoid a particular route in its time travel calculation. These inputs are case insensitive matched against the description of the route.
- When using the `Avoid Toll Roads?`, `Avoid Subscription Roads?` and `Avoid Ferries?` options be aware that Waze will sometimes still route you over toll roads or ferries if a valid vignette/subscription is assumed. Default behavior is that Waze will route you over roads having subscription options, so best is to set both `Avoid Toll Roads?` and `Avoid Subscription Roads?` or `Avoid Ferries?` if needed and experiment to ensure the desired outcome.

## Manual Polling

Some users want more control over polling intervals. To use more granular polling, you can disable automated polling from the entry on the Integration page. Go to the Integrtaion page, select the entry, click on the vertical 3 dots, and then select System Options to turn off or on polling. Afterwards to manually trigger a polling request, call the [`homeassistant.update_entity` service](/integrations/homeassistant/#service-homeassistantupdate_entity) as needed, either manually or via automations.

## Example using dynamic destination

Using the flexible option to set a sensor value to the `Destination`, you can setup a single Waze integration that will calculate travel time to multiple optional locations on demand.

In the following example, the `Input Select` is converted into an address which is used to modify the destination for Waze route calculation from `device_tracker.myphone` location (It takes a few minutes for the value to update due to the interval of Waze data fetching).

{% raw %}

```yaml
input_select:
  destination:
    name: destination
    options:
      - Home
      - Work
      - Parents

template:
  - sensor:
     - name: "Destination address"
       state: >-
          {%- if is_state("input_select.destination", "Home")  -%}
            725 5th Ave, New York, NY 10022, USA
          {%- elif is_state("input_select.destination", "Work")  -%}
            767 5th Ave, New York, NY 10153, USA
          {%- elif is_state("input_select.destination", "Parents")  -%}
            178 Broadway, Brooklyn, NY 11211, USA
          {%- else -%}
            Unknown
          {%- endif %}

```

{% endraw %}

### Various configurations that are supported

#### Tracking entity to entity

In this example we use a device_tracker entity ID as the origin and the sensor created above as the destination.

  - Name: "Me to some destination"
  - Origin: `device_tracker.myphone`
  - Destination: `sensor.dest_address`
  - Region: "US"

#### Tracking entity to zone friendly name

In this example we are using the entity ID of a zone as the origin and the friendly name of a zone as the destination.

  - Name: "Home to Eddie's house"
  - Origin: `zone.home`
  - Destination: "Eddies House"
  - Region: "US"

#### Tracking entity in Imperial Units

  - Name: "Somewhere in New York"
  - Origin: `person.paulus`
  - Destination: "725 5th Ave, New York, NY 10022, USA"
  - Region: "US"
  - Units: "imperial"
  - Vehicle Type: "motorcycle"

#### Avoiding toll, subscription

  - Name: "Westerscheldetunnel"
  - Origin: "51.330436, 3.802043"
  - Destination: "51.445677, 3.749929"
  - Region: "EU"
  - Avoid Toll Roads: `True`
  - Avoid Subscription Roads: `True`

## Using the live map in an iFrame

If you plan to use [Waze's live map](https://developers.google.com/waze/iframe/)
in a dashboard [iframe](/dashboards/iframe/) then use
[https://embed.waze.com/iframe](https://embed.waze.com/iframe) and not the live map URL itself.
